# 1 &ndash; Round and round the mulberry bush

Another year, another Advent of Code. to be excited for. Shorter now, and it seems like that means they're skipping forward past some of the early _very_ trivial puzzles and immediately getting into ones with a little bit of meat on them, which is nice.

The first part was pretty straightforward, aided once again by Python's decision to use the correct definition for `%` (division and modulus, not quotient and remainer, to use the Haskell names... ie defining it so that eg `(-5) % 100 == 95`, makes it much easier to do wraparound calculations in both directions).

The second part, though, was surprisingly fiddly. First off, there was the fact that there are values in the input in the several-hundreds, so it would be expected that a single turn could cross over the `0` multiple times. If I'd been thinking this through properly, I'd do something fancy here with `divmod` to count how many times it went around the horn, but that would be too much thinking for race mode, so I ditched the modulus-based solution and reverted to repeatedly adding or subtracting `100` in a loop. The solution still runs in a tiny fraction of a second, so I'm fine with that.

What was more fiddly, though, is the edge conditions to do with starting/ending a step on `0`, to avoid missing and/or double-counting. For right turns, this is pretty simple, each time you tick a step right, and wrap around from `99` to `0`, that counts as you ticking _to_ `0`, and we increment our counter, easy. But going left isn't quite so simple... each wrap around means you've ticked _from_ `0` which isn't quite the same thing. Like, if you start a step at `5` and the next step is `L10`, sure, that's one `0` hit and one wraparound. But if you start at `0` and next is `L5`, that's a wraparound without hitting a new `0`, and if you start at `5` and next is `L5` that's a new `0` with no wraparound. My solution handles both of these edge cases in the most direct and bodged way possible (and I definitely did miss one of them on my first attempt and submitted an incorrect answer).

[01:57/06:37]
