# 6 &ndash; Number grids

Well that's a new one for me, I don't think I've seen an AoC where the big puzzle was parsing the input data in weird ways. Neat.

So, fun side-effect of the leaderboard not being real, and just doing the race for fun... if I'm, say, distracted at 4pm and don't catch the puzzle right as it goes live, and instead just catch up later at, say, 9:25pm, then I can just pretend that's when it went live and calculate my times from there. So my times below are measured from when I first saw the puzzle, which I think is fair enough. But still, marked with an asterisk because, like, while _I_ know I didn't see any spoilers during that time, you don't have any reason to trust me on that, so if you want to you can add another five and a half hours onto that. You do you.

For part 1, I thought I was going to use the locations of the operators on the last row as the indicators for where the columns are, and slice the other rows up by those locations. But after I'd started writing that, I discarded it because I realised I could just split them on spaces instead (using the fact that Python `str.split()` will discard repeated spaces). But that thinking still came in handy for the second part, because I _did_ end up using the locations of the operators as markers for parsing that one. Which was still a little fiddly but ultimately fine. I probably could've just used any columns of only blanks as a delimiter, but this also worked just fine.

I wonder how many people got tripped up by the fact that some of these lines have trailing spaces... if you allow for the trailing spaces, the input is a true grid, with the same number of characters on each line, but if your text editor automatically trims off the tail then you're going to have to put a bit more work into parsing it... luckily nothing in my workflow does that automatically.

[04:07/08:11]\*
