# 7 &ndash; Pachinko Tree

Another day, another puzzle where I somewhat cheat the Part 2 timer by doing that puzzle during Part 1. This time not because I anticipated it, but because I misunderstood the puzzle and assumed that _was_ Part 1.

From skim-reading the puzzle description, I saw "how many times will the beam be split" and read it as "how many pieces will the beam be split into, possibly minus one", which I figured was either: how many distinct beams is it split into (ie part 2), or, how many distinct beam locations are there at the bottom of the board. But just looking at the sample diagram made it clear that the latter was far less than `21`, so I assumed it must be the former.

But after implementing it, I got an answer of `40`, which was far too much, so I took another look at the puzzle description and figured out what it actually meant was how many distinct splitter `^` nodes were hit by beams, added a counter for that, and it gave the right answer.

Then, Part 2 was revealed, and I saw the diagrams showing distinct paths through the board... and smiled. Scrolled right to the bottom and saw the number `40`, and grinned. Hit Ctrl+Z a couple times to get back my previous implementation and ran it on the actual puzzle input and got it done immediately.

The trick, as always, is not to try to count every path through the board, there are far too many for that. Still de-dupe the paths at each point when they go through the same location (as Part 1 tells you to do), but keep track of the total count of how many beams are overlapped on that point. And when two beams merge on a point, add the counts together. Then, at the bottom, you have a list of the total counts of paths reaching each location at the bottom, and can add them all together to get the grand total of paths through the whole board.

[04:22/04:38]
