# 12 &ndash; lol epic troll lmao

I... honestly don't know how to feel about this one. Pretty cheesed off, tbh.

Because, like, this is obviously a very hard puzzle, that much is clear just from looking at it. I have no idea how you'd even start to approach it. The obvious solutions of just trying a bunch of piece orientations, with backtracking and whatnot, seemed obviously intractable, the number of pieces was much too large to make that search space reasonable. Even throwing a bunch of memoisation at it would be unlikely to achieve much, the grids were far too large for that to be useful.

I did some searching online for this sort of puzzle, other people who had attempted to code polynomial packing challenges, and I found for most of them, backtracking and pruning is enough to get the job done... but they're doing things like 12 pentominos on a small board, not nearly 200 septominos on a massive grid.

I did see one person who mentioned trying an approach with an automated SAT solver... so I tried installing [one of those](https://pysathq.github.io/) and giving it a shot... not really knowing what I was doing, but I ended up with [something that seemed to work](12a.py). But not efficiently. Just for the three example problems, it solves the first in about a second, the second in about a minute, and the third (for which it needs to determine there is no solution, rather than just finding a solution and bailing) it takes long enough that I gave up on waiting. And the real puzzle inputs are far larger than the examples.

After a bunch of this, and a bunch of despairing, I did see a spoiler hint in Discord, suggesting there was a much easier solution. And there was only one thing that could really be. I had realised you can quickly rule out any scenario where the total area of all the pieces is larger than the total area of the grid. What if this is _all_ you have to do? What if, by luck, every input where there was enough area, was solvable? So, [tried that](12.py) and, yes, it gave the right answer. (And, as is tradition, there is no part 2 on the final day.)

This strategy does _not_ give the correct answer to the worked example, but it does give the correct answer on the puzzle input.

But this is... incredibly unsatisfying, and I feel cheated by the puzzle. And I'm trying to figure out _why_ it feels that way.

Because, like, AoC has had puzzles in the past, where you could save a lot of headache by capitalising on special properties of the puzzle input. Heck, there was one [just three days ago](09.md). Why is this so different?

Maybe it's that I didn't try it myself and I had to get a hint in that direction.

But I think a major part of it is that there's _no way to know_ that this would work. Like, look at the puzzle from 3 days ago, I knew that if the input didn't have any neighbouring edges, then I could make a simplifying assumption in the solution. So I _checked the input_ and it didn't have any neighbouring edges, so I _knew_ I could make the simplifying assumption and get the right answer. It felt like _solving a puzzle_.

Whereas this, today, the flow had to be: "this would be easier if thing the input had property X", "I have no way to check property X but I'll just assume it's true", code up the solution, submit the answer on the website, and the website tells you "that's the right answer". And I feel like I _solved_ nothing, just poked at some buttons and the computer told me I got lucky.

And even then, you don't have any reason to think it _would_ work, beyond blind hope. Because, like, if it works, that means the puzzle must have been intentionally crafted for it to work, which means it was intentionally crafted to be _secretly very easy_ with no way to tell. Like a cruel joke, instead of a puzzle.

Another part of it is that, like, three-days-ago puzzle _was still solvable_ if you didn't make that assumption. It would have been _harder_, for sure, but it would still be doable. Whereas, this puzzle I'm not entirely convinced would be tractable at all without taking this assumption. Which, again, you have to do in the blind, and in the face of an example in which it _doesn't hold_.

Really put a downer on the whole event, honestly.

[37:21/37:25]\*

with an asterisk this time because this is more like how long it took me to see the spoiler, rather than how long it took me to actually get a solution.
