# 1 &ndash; Numbers can be letters?
That was... somewhat more challenging than previous day-1 challenges. Still entirely doable, for sure, but more than I was expecting for day 1.

Part 1 was fine, no issue there, but part 2 had a pretty subtle trap (which is definitely there on purpose), and once I'd fallen into it, it was surprisingly difficult to get out of it.

Namely, that the words can overlap. So if you, as I first did, try to replace the words with numbers like:
```py
i = i.replace("one", "1")
i = i.replace("two", "2")
... etc
```
then when it gets a string like the sample `eightwothree`, it'll replace the `two` with `2`, then it won't be able to see the `eight` because the `t` has been replaced.

My first thought was to use regular expressions, since a regex like `/[0-9]|one|two|three|...etc/` could easily be applied to match the first digit, no matter what it potentially overlapped with. But it couldn't be easily applied to match the _last_ digit.

Alternatively, I considered checking it manually, by iterating over each index in the string, and checking if the substring starting at that index matched any of the number words... but for some reason I decided that would take too long? I'm not sure why, thinking about that now it seems like it would be fine, but in the heat of the moment I dismissed this idea.

Instead, I build a second regex like `/[0-9]|eno|owt|eerht|...etc/` and match it against the reversed line... then take the first match and re-reverse it, which gives me the final match from the string. Which finally gets me the answer I was after. But it took me a bit to get there.

[71/286]
