# 2 &ndash; Grabbing the elf's sack
Well, that was more in line with the sort of challenge I'd expect from a Day 1 puzzle. Most of the puzzle is just loading the data from input into useful data structures. Once you have that the actual processing needed is very simple.

As is traditional in my race solutions, I avoided actually trying to parse the input string, and instead loaded it into the text editor and manipulated it to turn it into Python code, which I can then just copy-paste directly into my script. With a bunch of of find-replace tricks (or, more accurately, Alt+F3 tricks in Sublime Text), we can pretty quickly turn a line like `Game 1: 3 blue, 4 red; 1 red, 2 green, 6 blue; 2 green` into `[(3, "blue", 4, "red"), (1, "red", 2, "green", 6, "blue"), (2, "green")]` which is usable Python code.

From there, we're just a bunch of nested loops away from pulling out all of the appropriate data and either making comparisons for part 1, or finding maxima for part 2.

For the race, though, I made a couple mistakes that hurt my performance. First off, I was distracted right as the puzzle opened, and I didn't actually start solving the puzzle until about a minute after the hour. This isn't a long time, and on its own it wouldn't have improved my time enough to be on the leaderboard. But it was enough to get me flustered, which is never a great state to be in when trying to solve a puzzle quickly. That, in turn, lead me to mess up the indexing on the loop, which meant that when checking a reveal like `1 red, 2 green, 6 blue`, instead of checking each of those terms in turn, it instead checked `1 red` 3 times, and ignored the rest. Which naturally, meant I got the wrong answer. Debugging that wrong answer, I hit the big drawback of manually munging the input data into code instead of writing an actual parser... in order to load in the sample data to test against the worked example, I had to do all of that manual munging again, which took even more time. Ultimately I found the bug pretty quickly and it wasn't a big time loss... but this early in the event, a lot of people are finishing very quickly, and even a small time loss can mean a significant drop in the standings. C'est la vie.

[398/271]
