# 4 &ndash; Remember Kids, Gambling is Cool!
Not a lot of interest to talk here about the puzzle, it was remarkably straightforward, in a language that has a `set` type with an intersect method built-in. The second half tried to pull the trap of counting copy of every card individually, instead of doing each card once and multiplying it by the number of copies, but it was so transparent that I didn't even consider doing it that way, and the easy answer fell right out.

The good thing I can say is that I don't think there was any of that "subtle trap missing from the worked example" stuff that I was talking about yesterday... though, the puzzle description was pretty straightforward as it is, and I don't know that there was much room to a trap like that. If they really wanted to, they could have made it that, say, one of the last cards in the list had enough matches that you would run off the bottom of the list looking for cards to copy... but no, they specifically clarify in the puzzle description that this will never happen. So that's nice.

Unfortunately, I missed the leaderboard race for this one. I wasn't, like, doing anything, or busy at all, I just ADHDed my way straight through until about an hour after release. And normally when I do that, I'll time myself and compare to the leaderboard, but I fat-fingered the stopwatch app and I don't have a proper time, either. All I can say is I took somewhere in the 6-7 minute range, so I'm pretty sure I would have missed the leaderboard for part 1, and probably got some small number of points for part 2, but I can't be more precise than that. A shame to miss them, but I'll live.
