# 6 &ndash; The Boat That Couldn't Slow Down
Got trapped by my own smarts on this one...

So, when you strip away all of the fluff, the puzzle is: given values `T` and `D`, what is the range of values `x` such that `x(T-x) > D`. And there are two clear ways to solve this: blindly loop over all the integers between 0 and T, and count them. Or solve the quadratic. And I, who have done many AoC puzzles before, assumed that part 2 was going to be a lot bigger so that the brute-force-loop strategy would be infeasible, and the maths solution would get there.

So, I buckled down, and solved the quadratic. I briefly considered whether floating point was going to be an issue, and whether I'd need to find some integer sqrt function, but decided I was probably fine and would worry about it if it became a problem (which it didn't, happily). And, I was right, part 2 _did_ dramatically increase the size of the numbers involved, so that the brute-force loop would take a lot longer to run.

Unfortunately... not by enough. The brute-force loop solution for part 2 still only takes, like, 4 seconds to run. That's a lot slower than part 1, but still not really very long in the grand scheme of things. Meanwhile I'd spent a good couple minutes analytically solving the puzzle and cracking open the quadratic. Ultimately the dataset just wasn't big enough for that time to have been worth it.

I still think it was the right way to go, and given AoC's of the past, it's the strategy that will work more often than not. But unfortunately this time, I lost the race to people rushing into the no-thinking solution and getting lucky.

[989/392]
