# 7 &ndash; I've got three pair!
I'd like to give thanks to our lord and saviour, the Python `collections` module... once again, saving us from a lot of fiddly nonsense with a single line of `from collections import Counter`.

Since there's no straights, or flushes (or suits of any kind), to worry about, we can just feed the hand directly into a `Counter`, and then from that we can pull out what the distribution of counts is, which directly becomes the hand's rating... if the counter has a 4 and a 1, then the hand is a four-of-a-kind, etc.

I did get a little side-tracked at first by assuming that the hands were further rated as in poker, for example that two fours-of-a-kind are further rated by the four-of-a-kind first, and the extra card second. This was fully implemented before I thought to double-check the puzzle and see that they are in fact rated lexically by the cards _in the order they were dealt_. Which is simpler, to be sure. I was working by using the new Python `match` statement to pull out the relevant card values:
```py
case [(1, a), (4, b)]:
    return (6, b, a) # four-of-a-kind is the sixth (of seven) hand types, and then sort by the four-of and then the single
```
but then after re-reading the puzzle, this became just:
```py
case [1, 4]:
    return (6, *hand) # the hand type, and then all of the cards of the hand in order
```
which... means the `match` statement was kinda overkill, this coulda been done with just a lookup table, but it would've taken more effort to change it since the match statement was already written. And so it remains.

For part 2, we just have to pull the jokers out of the counter, and then add them to whatever value in the counter is the highest. Again, since there is no straights or whatever to worry about, the best thing the jokers can be, is whatever we already have the most of. For example, if we have two jokers, a pair, and another card, the best thing we can do is treat the jokers as the same as the pair, to give us a four-of-a-kind. The one edge-case that caught me was a hand that's just 5 jokers, which is an exception because there is no other card we can group our jokers with... so we just call that a five-of-a-kind and move on with our lives.

I imagine in a world where I didn't know about `collections.Counter` or `list.sort(key=...)`, this would have taken a lot longer to write, but with those tools under my belt this was breezy.

As a final aside, we do have the return of the major edge case which isn't tested by the worked example... which is that the example doesn't really test the secondary sorting rules. For part 1, you get the same answer on the worked example if you do the sorting properly, vs if you use standard poker ordering (for example, the two threes-of-a-kind are sorted in the same order if you rank them by their first card, or if you rank them by the card they have three of). And for part 2, the worked example never has to compare a joker by its card value, so you'll get the same answer if you correctly sort the joker as below a 2, or between a ten and a queen, or as the same as whatever card value it's wildcard-ing. So, we had a break in the run but the incomplete tests are back with a vengenace.

[53/22]
