# 8 &ndash; Ghosts are the only logical conclusion
OK, I'm... not sure how I got this one? I had a brain fart, and did the wrong calculation, but when I put the number in it was correct. So that was exciting.

So, for part 2... there are a bunch of ghosts running through this maze, and you need to find out when they all land on a certain set of rooms at once.

In theory, to do this right, in general, you'd want to track each ghost until it looped... until it returned to the same room, in the same point in the instruction sequence. During that loop, it may have passed through several Z rooms. or even the same Z room multiple times (at different points in the instruction sequence). You could then take every combination of the Z rooms in each ghost's loop, and use the Chinese Remainder Theorem to find when is the first time the ghosts were in that combination of rooms simultaneously. And then find which combination happens the earliest. And deal with the fact that the usual CRT only works if the loop lengths are all co-prime, and they aren't. There's a lot to do.

However... it turns out that there are two simplifying facts that happen to be true about the input data (which aren't spelled out in the puzzle), and these are:
1. Every ghost only goes through a single Z room in its travels
2. The Z room it comes across is always right at the very end of its loop, before it returns to the beginning

These two facts together mean that you don't need the full power of the CRT to  the final answer you need is merely the LCM of all of the loop lengths (because the CRT of `(a-1) mod a` and `(b-1) mod b` is just `(ab-1) mod ab`).

So when I'm not thinking clearly, and I just blindly assume every ghost is looping once it gets to any Z room for the second time, and just take the LCM of all the loop lengths and enter it in the website without thinking it through, I get lucky and it turns out to be the right answer. Which... neat, I guess.

Part of me wants to go back and implement the more generic search algorithm. But most of me just wants to take the unearned W and move on.

[119/28]
