# 12 &ndash; Nonograms forever
OK... this one broke me. And ultimately, because of a dumb oversight that I just didn't see.

Normally, I don't edit my race solutions before I upload them to Github, to let y'all see the raw unfiltered garbage that is my race-mode code. But in this case I had to split it up, because it would have been utterly incomprehensible. Because I kept coming up with a solution, running it, it was far too slow, so I'd comment it out and write another solution underneath. For this, I've split them out into seprate files, for comparison.

And so we have:

[12a.py](12a.py) &ndash; My first attempt, raw unfiltered brute-force. Took about 15 seconds just to do part 1, I didn't even try this on part 2, it had no hope.

[12b.py](12b.py) &ndash; Attempt two. Working in reverse, more like how I think when solving Picross by hand... rather than trying each cell as being a yes or a no, and seeing if it makes the right blocks, instead try placing blocks in different positions, and see if they fit the cells. So we recurse through each block and try it in different positions, see how many of them line up. This worked, but was going nowhere fast.

[12c.py](12c.py) &ndash; Attempt three, iterations on a similar idea. Rather than just trying to place each block blindly in a lot of positions, try to narrow down where each block can go. We apply a bunch of filtering ahead of time to find, for each block, a lower bound and an upper bound on what position it can be in.

There are two restrictions here: if a block is, say, at too early a position, then there may not be enough space before it to fit all the earlier blocks, and there may not be enough later blocks to cover all the known `#`s after that position... both of which contribute to the lower bound (and the reverse conditions both contribute to the upper bound). We also do a pre-calculation of where each block size can fit, just in general.

Now, all of this certainly helped limit the search space, but it wasn't enough. While I was working on other solutions, this ran for over half an hour, and it got through 48 of the 1000 puzzles in the input. Not good enough.

[12d.py](12d.py) &ndash; At this point, I was at the point of giving up, and started reading spoilers in the LRRcord thread. And in particular, a description of an algorithm from epsilon_vee that was back on the direct route, of trying each `?` cell as either a `#` or a `.` and seeing what fell out, but with a bunch of smarts to bail out if a particular pattern is unsatisfiable (such as keeping track of how many of the `?`s need to be `#` or `.`, and failing if either of those counts are exceeded, and making sure that every time a `#` is seen, its corresponding block is locked into place and all the corresponding cells are fixed). Willing to try anything at this point, I built up an implementation of this same idea... and nothing. Still ridiculously slow. And yet if I ran [their code directly](https://gist.github.com/rakslice/b596a1d3857c08d0412f0e2eace578b0#file-day12-py-L20), it only took a couple of seconds. Clearly, I am missing something.

[12e.py](12e.py) &ndash; And here, I realise, finally, what I am missing. The one word in epsilon_vee's description of their solution that I missed on my first read through. And the one thing I hadn't considered in my own solution.

Memoisation.

Whether you're working through the list of cells from left to right, or the list of blocks from start to finish, either way you're eventually going to be in a situation you've seen before. Like, if you place the first block at position `0`, then the second block at position `5`, and are starting to look at the third block... then later, you place the first block at position `1` then the second at position `5`, and move on to the third... ultimately, you're in the same situation, and the number of solutions from here out is going to be the same. So pull it from a memo.

So I added a memo to my re-implementation of epsilon_vee's solution, and now it runs in half a second. Huzzah.

[12f.py](12f.py) &ndash; And, for good measure, I went back to my own attempt (cf 12c.py) and added memoisation there, too. Again, now it also runs in half a second. Turns out all my clever logic and tracking where the blocks could go all worked just fine, and the memo was all it needed to get there. Though it still ultimately runs a little slower than 12e, it's still my preferred final version since it's mostly my own work, rather than the one I cribbed together from spoilers.

I unfortunately had a work meeting run long, and missed the start of the race by about 7-8 minutes... I think if I was on time then my Part 1 finish would have been in somewhere the mid 30s. But my Part 2 finish was absolutely nowhere near the leaderboard and I can't blame my late start, it took me almost 2 hours to get a solution, so I'm going to take my part 2 ranking as-is.

[-/2180]
