# 14 &ndash; Trained by 2048
This one was fun, a lot of neat manipulations of the data, and the final result drops out in quite a nice way.

For the first part, we need to roll a bunch of rocks, which can be stopped by static obs tas, or by each other. The key observation is that if we start at the top of the grid and work down, we only need to worry about colliding with rocks we've already moved, which we can treat the same as the static obstacles.

For part 2, we have to make two changes... First of all, we need to make it so we can roll in different directions. To do this, I pass a direction vector to the rolling function. Note that now instead of working "top down" as before, we need to sort them according to the specified direction... which amounts to taking the dot product of the rocks' locations with the movement direction and sorting based on that.

The second is to loop this pattern a billion times, but that's obviously infeasible. My first thought was maybe it ends in a steady state, once all the rocks end up stuck in the corners, but that doesn't turn out to be the case.

But what does happen is that eventually it falls into a _cycle_. Like, the example puzzle, after 3 loops the balls are in a certain arrangement, and then after the 10th loop, they fall into that same arrangement again. Which means it'll repeat like this, and steps 17, 24, 31... all will be the same too. So then we can count backwards, and the state after step a billion will be the same as the state after step 6, which we've already seen.

So we just need to keep a history of every state we've seen, and keep going until we see a repeat, and then we can solve the loop from there. We use a dictionary to keep track of the history, to make lookups easier, but that requires converting the list of rock locations (which I have as a `set`) into something hashable. I went with a sorted `tuple`, which isn't the most efficient option, but it worked well enough to get the answer out.

[271/22]
