# 17 &ndash; Pathfinding Found!
Ah, finally the pathfinding puzzle. Every AoC has one, often several, and this one was quite late in the process.

Most of this setup looks like the typical pathfinding setup, ideal to just throw Dijkstra at the problem and move on... except that "can only move 3 steps in the same direction" really throws a wrench in the works, as the standard Dijkstra's setup expects the state to be historyless. Which means we need to capture that history _in_ the state... instead of having a state node for each location, we need a state node for each location _and_ how we got there.

There are a couple of obvious ways to do this... you can have the state include the location, what direction you came from, and how many steps you have taken in a row. So you can't go in the opposite direction, and you can't go in the same direction if the counter is too high. The other option is to only have the state include the location and what direction you came from, and then have the neighbours of each location be taking any allowed number of steps in the same direction, as one operation, and then after that the next turn is forced. (The latter option can be improved further because you don't need to remember the entire direction you just came from, you just need to remember "horizontal" vs "vertical"... but I didn't think of that at the time.)

I did the first strategy for Part 1, but I thought it would result in far too many states to do part 2 cleanly, so I transititioned my code to that. The second strategy was definitely more efficient, as the runtimes of my code were 42s for part 1 using the first strategy, but dropping to 8s for part 1 using the second strategy, and 30s for part 2. (Those times could also be improved by a better Dijkstra's algorithm, like using a proper priority queue rather than re-calculating the minimum score every step... but it's good enough for government work.)

[105/95]
