# 19 &ndash; Binary Search Christmas Trees
OK, I'm annoyed, a bunch of dumb problems really slowed me down this time.

To start with, I lost track of time watching [the new LRRcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wv1yDtjzPkQ) and ended up starting about 5-6 minutes late. Then, while I was working on part 1, my text editor completely locked up, and would not recover, and I had to `kill` it... luckily I didn't lose much work but still, that was some time lost for something that wasn't related to the puzzle. Never had any stability problems with Sublime Text before today, this is the literal first time. And then I spent way too long trying and failing to munge the data into python data structures in text-editor as I usually like to do for speed, before calling it "too hard" and just actually writing a parser for once (should probably have given up sooner).

Even if we keep the late start and the time lost to parsing woes, since those were my fault, and just remove the time lost to text editor crashing, I think I might have hit the leaderboards for part 2. And if I had actually started on time, too, maybe even in the 40's somewhere. But as it is, I missed the leaderboard, and am medium salty about it.

Anyway, the puzzle.

The first part was pretty straightforward once you have all the input parsed, just run through each one and do the tests as described.

The second part is a lot more interesting, as there's no way you could run through every single part individually. At first I thought you would work like [day 5](05.md), and keep a list of ranges and go through each step removing pieces, and maintaining the list of ranges that are still OK. But quickly realised it wasn't quite that simple since each each split goes to a different workflow, they aren't all going to the tests in the same order. But then I realised that we're only ever dividing a range into pieces, the ranges can never move or grow in any way, so we don't need to maintain a big set of acceptable ranges, we just need to take each split, process each side separately, and add the total results. (though even then I didn't make the connection that it's a BST until I was writing the title for this diary page.)

At first I was going to recurse to do the two halves, but I was worried the recursion depth might be too high, and also one of the main reasons I considered recursion was so it could be memoised, but that wouldn't have been useful (since the ranges can't overlap, you can't end up processing the same range twice). So I just maintain a list of blocks, and which step they're up to in the process. And then I just repeatedly pick up a block, and look at what step it's up to... if it's entirely on one side or the other of the partition, I just forward it on to the appropriate next step, but if it straddles the partition then I divide it into two blocks, one on either side.

There is a slight gotcha that when the condition is '<123' then the block needs to be split at the value `123` but if the condtion is `>123` then the block needs to be split at the value `124`... but luckily I caught that quickly.

I did fall into one pitfall that unfortunately `product()` is not available in the Python builtins. It turns out it does exist as `math.prod` but I didn't want to go searching through docs in the middle of the race. So I had to write out the entire product to find the volume of each block, by hand. Tedious, but ultimately not too bad.

[569/142]
