# 20 &ndash; [Buttons](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l6acFNPJJXQ)
Another puzzle with a _lot_ of words in it, but this time it was somewhat justified in that the thing they were asking us to do was weirdly complex...

Part 1 was reasonably straightforward, at least after successfully reading the instructions. Build a queue to keep all of the pulses, and process each one as specified. Did get weirdly tripped up by this one node that wanted to send to `rx` which wasn't actually listed as a module in the input? And the puzzle text doesn't say what to do with this dangling reference. But knowing that `rx` is an abbreviation for "receiver", I suspected (correctly) that this was a hook for part 2, and that pulses sent to this name could, for now, be ignored. So I added a dummy record to my dataset under the name `rx` which did nothing, and now Part 1 was giving me the right number.

Part 2, though... I was able to implement the brute-force plan very quickly (just add an implementation for that dummy `rx` record I already made!) but it wasn't getting anywhere fast. Left that running in the background while I tried to figure out a plan B. If the number is so big that we can't get there through direct simulation, we need another way.

I couldn't see any way of meaningfully determining this from the outside, the structure of the nodes we had were too chaotic and could be wired up in too complex a way. So Plan B had to be cracking into the actual input we'd been provided, and see what the network we were simulating was actually _doing_.

So, in the input network I have, there is a single node `&dn` that sends to `rx`. And then there are four separate nodes that send to `dn`. So in order for a low pulse to be sent to `rx` we need all four of those nodes to send a high pulse to `dn` at the same time. And so we have, I suspected, the trick... each of those four nodes probably pulses with a regular pattern, and if we can extract those patterns separately, we can analyse them to determine when they overlap (with CRT or the like).

However, my implementation of this didn't work, for reasons I didn't understand until much later... I was checking the current state of `dn`'s input latches after each button press was fully processed. I'd run a full button press until the queue was empty, check the latches, run another button press, and repeat. And whenever I did this, all the latches were set to low, a high never showed up. And this was after running for tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of loops. I figured the loops must be _really_ long, and I needed to do more analysis.

Cracking into the structure further, I realised that `broadcaster` sent to four nodes, and there were four nodes being gathered by `dn`... probably, given how these puzzles generally work, there are 4 separate independent clusters that each do their own thing, each with one entrypoint and one exit value. So I extracted one of these, and got to work figuring out what it did.

With the different nodes renamed for clarity, what I discovered was:
```
broadcaster -> bit0, [...]

%bit0 -> acc, bit1
%bit1 -> acc, bit2
%bit2 -> bit3
%bit3 -> bit4, acc
%bit4 -> acc, bit5
%bit5 -> bit6, acc
%bit6 -> bit7
%bit7 -> acc, bit8
%bit8 -> bit9, acc
%bit9 -> bit10, acc
%bit10 -> bit11, acc
%bit11 -> acc
&acc -> bit6, bit0, out, bit2
&out -> finalacc

[...] -> finalacc

&finalacc -> rx
```
So the `broadcaster` toggles `bit0`, then when `bit0` flips back to low it toggles `bit1`, then when `bit1` toggles back to low it flips `bit2`, etc. This is a simple binary counter (and is exactly what I expected after reading the flip-flop description). Then there is this `acc` node that picks out different bits from the counter, and feeds the output chain... so the output will be activated when the counter reaches a specific value. But it also feeds back into the other bits in a complex way? It wasn't immediately obvious what this would do.

I'll come back to this analysis later. But one thing this did make clear is that the output to `dn` (now renamed `finalacc`) happens _multiple times_ in a single button push. There'll be a button push which gets the counter into the correct state, and then `acc` will finally pulse low to `out`, which will pulse high to `finalacc`, which will potentially result in our final output... but it'll also feed _back_ into the flip-flops, change those, and that will cascade back to `acc` probably pulsing high, then `out` will pulse low to `finalacc`. This is why my previous attempt at breaking down the cycles, which only checked the inputs to `finalacc` after each button press didn't go anywhere... those inputs are only briefly high _during_ a button press, and they return to low before the button press is complete.

So the path forward was clear... instead of checking the inputs to `dn` after each loop, check it _during_ the loop. Every time any individual high pulse is sent to `dn`, print out which module it came from and what step we're on. From there, we can try to figure out the pattern for each input and work from there.

And the patterns were easy to spot... I was expecting a nice congruential pattern (to work with CRT) but it was even simpler than that... each of the inputs would pulse high on step `n` then again on step `2n`, then `3n`, etc. So all I needed to do was gather the four periods, get their LCM, and that was my final answer (did this part by hand in a REPL, it's not in my Python code).

After that was locked in and I wasn't racing any more, I went back to the network to finish my analysis of what it's doing. I already knew that it was a basic binary counter, that would count up by `1` every time the button was pushed, I just needed to figure out the feedback loop of this `acc` node. But the feedback isn't actually that complex because it will only do anything when `acc` pulses low, since the flip-flops ignore high pulses. And `acc` pulsing low only happens when all of its inputs are true. So most of the time the counter _will_ just count up 1 by 1.

Until it reaches the point where all of the bits that feed to `acc` are true simultaneously. Which, of note, is not _all_ the bits, `bit2` and `bit6` do not feed to the accumulator. So in this case `acc` will activate and send out a low pulse when the counter reaches `0xFBB`, or `4027` button presses. When this happens, it'll send through to the output (which we already understand), and then also activate `bit0`, `bit2` and `bit6`, which will effectively add `0x45` to our counter... but `0xFBB + 0x45 == 0x1000`, that is, this is exactly the amount needed to roll over the counter back to zero! So from there, it will count up another 4027 button pushes, and the accumulator will activate again. This is why we didn't need CRT, because it always pulses at the very end of its period.

I haven't fully looked into the other clusters, but I presume they're very similar... a string of flip-flops acting as a counter, some random selection of those bits feed into an accumulator (and which bits determine the period... this is a pretty standard way of wiring up an arbitrary-period counter in electrical engineering)... and then the accumulator feeds back into some selection of bits (selected to ensure that this resets the counter back to 0).

There's just one question left, which is the timing... on that final button press that gets all the counters to the correct value together, how can we be sure the timing works? After all, each of the four counter clusters is going to have its output pulse high once the number matches, and then pulse low again (several times) as it gets reset back to 0. How do we know the high pulses from each module will line up?

Well, that's why the puzzle specifies exactly how the pulses propagate, that you process each pulse one at a time, and subsequent pulses get added to the back of the queue.
* So the first pulse goes to the broadcaster, which then activates `bit0` of each of the four counters.
* It is relevant that all of the periods for all of the counters are odd, which means all of the `bit0`s feed a signal to their respective `acc`s, along with their `bit1`s, for a total of 8 signals sent.
* Because of the queue system, all 8 of those signals will be processed before it moves on to the next generation of signals.
* The `bit1`s won't do anything (again, because all the counters are going to an odd number), and all the `acc`s line up at once, and send a low pulse to their outputs.
* So the queue is now low pulses to the four `out` inverters, and to all the various `bit`s needed to reset the counters back to zero.
* After all of those are processed, we have four high pulses going to the `finalacc`, and a bunch of carry bits from all the reset counters and a bunch of new pulses from those values back to `acc`
* The four pulses to `finalacc` all arrive at once, and it sends a low pulse to `rx`. Then all of the `acc`s pulse high again, and the carry bits continue propagating.
* More mess continues from here until all the counters stabilise. But it doesn't matter, because that low pulse to `rx` already happened.

You can imagine that if you implemented the pulse propagation incorrectly, by completely processing a pulse _and all its subsequent pulses_ before moving onto the next (eg by using a stack instead of a queue to store the outstanding pulses) then this timing would not work out properly. However since the only multiple-input `&` nodes that exist, which are the only things where timing matters, are the accumulators and the final output, and none of them do anything until several thousand loops through the thing, simply implementing the puzzle with a stack instead of a queue would actually _get you the right answer_ for part 1, and it wouldn't be until you attempted part 2 that it would actually cause a problem. I imagine that probably caused a lot of brain-scratching for someone out there.

Fun puzzle, overall, I had a great time today.

[8/40]
