# 22 &ndash; I am the man who arranges the blocks
Ah, another fun, simple challenge.

The first step is to let all the bricks fall and see where they land... and for this, we can re-use a brainwave we already had back for [day 14](14.md)... that is, if we sort the bricks in order from the bottom up, then we only need to test each brick to see if it is colliding with the bricks that are _already locked in_, and we never have to compare a falling brick to another falling brick. This simplifies things immensely.

So we sort the bricks, and let each one fall, and when it hits something we lock it in and record the list of cells it covers in the grid, for the next faller to check against. And also, when it lands, we make a list of all the bricks it is resting on top of, because we'll need that information later. (We also record the final location of each brick, or rather the distance that each brick has fallen from its starting location, just in case that turns out to be important... but it was not.)

For part 1, we want to find all the bricks that are _not_ the sole support of any other bricks. However, it is much easier for us to find the inverse of this... the list of bricks that _are_ the sole support of some other brick. We just look through our list of what is supporting each brick, looking for singleton sets, and those are the bricks that we can't disintegrate... take the union of all of those, and count them up, subtract that from the total number of bricks, and we have the number of bricks that can safely be disintegrated.

For part 2, I at first considered doing some dynamic-programming thing... like, say removing brick 1 means that bricks 2 and 3 would also fall... then if we've already calculated all the bricks that would fall from bricks 2 and 3, we can just add those to our total. Unfortunately, that doesn't work, as it won't consider a block that's resting on _both_ bricks 2 _and_ 3, as it wouldn't have fallen from either of those, individually.

So, no dynamic tricks, we just figure out the full count for each starter brick from scratch, but luckily this isn't too bad. We work our way up the stack, and keep a list of all the bricks that have already fallen, and if all the supports for a given brick are included in that list, then it will also fall and we add it to the list. And our final result is a list of every brick that will fall. Remember to subtract 1 because we're not supposed to include the original brick itself.

For this we are again making use of the fact that we started by sorting the bricks by vertical position... because a brick's supports can only be ones that are earlier than it in the list. So, simply going through the list of bricks in order, when we're considering some bricks, we've already considered all of its supports and decided whether they're falling or not, so we can make a final determination for this next brick accordingly. We don't have to worry about running back and forth through the list to handle the dependency tree, that's already fixed by that original sorting.

[1/4]
