# 23 &ndash; NP-completeness is all in the mind
For part 1, we have a neat shortcut we can take, that ends up being a lot of fiddly typing, but it's very smooth to run. I spent a lot of time working through all the steps of typing this up, which kinda slowed me down for my part 1 ranking (and there's probably some parts of it which could have been skipped) but it got me the answer in the end, and that's all that matters.

That step is: we can take all of the "slope" tiles and use them as boundaries to divide the maze into different regions, and then solve each region sepearately. Because a full longest-path solution over the whole maze would take way too long, but doing one over each of these smaller regions is entirely feasible. So for each region, we find the longest path from each of the entry points, to each of the exit points. Then, we use those as building-blocks to solve the larger maze, doing a higher-level longest-path search over the entire maze, but going region-by-region instead of cell-by-cell.

Note that we're kinda making an assumption that the longest path won't go through the same region twice. This is not actually a guarantee, consider this maze:
```
#.#######
#v#######
#.>...>.#
#.###.#.#
#.###.#.#
#.###.#.#
#.<...<.#
#v#######
#.......#
#######.#
```
The longest path through this maze goes through the central region twice, which means this region-by-region approach would not consider it.

However, we get lucky, that we nevertheless find the correct answer for the puzzle.

For part 2, we just need to expand our search parameters. In the first step, when we're solving each region, we need to find not just the longest path from each "entrance" to each "exit", but we also need to find paths from entrances to entrances, and paths from exits to exits. The code for this is not efficient, as it ultimately ends up solving every path twice (it finds the longest path from A to B, but also the longest path from B to A), but this phase runs fast enough that I didn't consider it worth the time to improve on this.

And then, when we're doing the higher-level search, we need to allow the path to go from any region to any neighbouring region, not just the ones that are in the correct direction. This actually _massively_ expands the search space here, and balloons the runtime of the script.

I left this running, in the background, and started bringing up [research materials](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Longest_path_problem) to see if there's a better way to solve this, which is usually a pretty desperate tactic... but in this case it paid off, as 3 minutes later my script did spit out an answer, which the website accepted.

There are probably better algorithms for this problem out there, that solve this in general better than a brute-force search, but I don't know what they are.

[953/73]
