# 24 &ndash; Ice, Ice, Baby
OK, so I do have a solution for this. It works. But I _really_ don't like it.

Part 1, is fairly straightforward. You have two simultaneous equations:

$$ \begin{align*}
x_1 + v_{x1} t_1 &= x_2 + v_{x2} t_2 \\\\
y_1 + v_{y1} t_1 &= y_2 + v_{y2} t_2
\end{align*} $$

We can solve these for $t_1$ and $t_2$ to get the intersection time. The actual formula I use for this in the script is a mess, I just took these two equations in a notepad and very roughly solved them, didn't bother trying to simplify anything. It gets the job done.

Part 2, though... this feels like the sort of problem where there _should_ be a standard solution to this... but I have no idea what it is.

In principle, this should just be another set of simultaneous equations. Given any three of the hailstones in the input list, that should be enough to solve for our solution, as it gives us 9 equations of 9 unknowns:

$$ \begin{align*}
x + v_x t_1 &= x_1 + v_{x1} t_1 \\\\
y + v_y t_1 &= y_1 + v_{y1} t_1 \\\\
z + v_z t_1 &= z_1 + v_{z1} t_1 \\\\
x + v_x t_2 &= x_2 + v_{x2} t_2 \\\\
y + v_y t_2 &= y_2 + v_{y2} t_2 \\\\
z + v_z t_2 &= z_2 + v_{z2} t_2 \\\\
x + v_x t_3 &= x_3 + v_{x3} t_3 \\\\
y + v_y t_3 &= y_3 + v_{y3} t_3 \\\\
z + v_z t_3 &= z_3 + v_{z3} t_3
\end{align*} $$

We can simplify this to only 6 equations of 6 unknowns by eliminating the $t$'s:

$$ \begin{align*}
(x - x_1)(v_y - v_{y1}) &= (y - y_1)(v_x - v_{x1}) \\\\
(x - x_1)(v_z - v_{z1}) &= (z - z_1)(v_x - v_{x1}) \\\\
(x - x_2)(v_y - v_{y2}) &= (y - y_2)(v_x - v_{x2}) \\\\
(x - x_2)(v_z - v_{z2}) &= (z - z_2)(v_x - v_{x2}) \\\\
(x - x_3)(v_y - v_{y3}) &= (y - y_3)(v_x - v_{x3}) \\\\
(x - x_3)(v_z - v_{z3}) &= (z - z_3)(v_x - v_{x3})
\end{align*} $$

However, this set of equations is not linear, and that makes solving it a lot more complicated.

I spent a while trying to solve this by hand, by substituting equations into each other to try to eliminate everything, and I'd gotten halfway (down to 3 equations of 3 unknowns) and those equations were already unworkable messes, hundreds of characters long. Just trying to do this mechanically in a rush without thinking about it was getting me nowhere fast.

So I turned to alternative methods of solving equations... firstly, [Wolfram|Alpha](https://www.wolframalpha.com/). I wrote some code to spit out the six equations as text, that I could copy and paste into W|A. And this actually _worked_ for the sample input (it gave four different answers, one of which is the correct answer provided... presumably the other three would have had some of the collisions happen in the past). However, on the real input, because the coordinates are such large numbers, the result was too long for W|A's input (which has a 200-char limit). And even if I managed to work around that, W|A's natural-language input failed to parse it properly.

So, I went looking for alternative ways of sledgehammering the problem open, and ended up installing [SciPy](https://scipy.org/) for its [numerical solver](https://docs.scipy.org/doc/scipy/reference/generated/scipy.optimize.fsolve.html). Same six equations, but feed them into this magic machine, and it spits out a solution. We use three of the hailstones as the values in the equations, and a fourth as the "initial" point for the numerical search, to make sure it's in the right ballpark (and to hopefully encourage it to converge to correct root, as we previously noted there are multiple roots). It's tough, because the numbers in the coordinates are _almost_ big enough that there is precision loss when they are converted to `double`s and munged by SciPy... but the result we get out still rounds to the correct answer, so... I guess it worked.

[23/98]
