# 25 &ndash; Graphs are just a theory
So... there is probably a fancy algorithm for exactly this problem. But I don't know it, and some quick Googling wasn't revealing anything immediately applicable. I found stuff for finding where removing a _single_ edge will disconnect the graph, but not where removing 3 edges will do it.

But what I did find instead is an algorithm for a _more general_ version of the problem, where you _don't know_ the size of the minimum cut, and you need to find it. Also, it works on weighted graphs. Which is some extra machinery that we shouldn't need, so maybe there's a faster algorithm that doesn't generalise it this far, but regardless, it should give us the right answer. And that is the [Stoer-Wagner algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stoer%E2%80%93Wagner_algorithm).

Understanding the algorithm from the Wikipedia article definitely took a few tries... it's not particularly well-explained. But the jist is: we repeatedly find two nodes that should be on the same side of the cut, and merge them together, and as we do this the graph gradually shrinks in size until we're down to a single node. And as we go, we also generate a sequence of candidates for the minimum cut, and we finally select the best one of those candidates.

This was a little fiddly to implement, especially that step of merging two nodes together (especially since this step required rewriting the data structures to reflect the fact that it now had to be a weighted graph, as it can result in combining multple edges into a single higher-weighted edge).

It starts with almost 1600 nodes, and each step of the process took over a second and only shrank the graph by 1, at that rate it would have taken nearly half an hour to complete. But as the graph shrunk, it accelerated, quite rapidly. Ultimately, the code took about 8.5 minutes to run.

Part 2 is, as is tradition, free, for anyone who has completed every puzzle from the year.

[907/791]

Final leaderboard score is 1500 points even (nice round total) which puts me 27th, overall. Of the last three years, where I've been going for the leaderboard races in earnest, this is slightly lower on the leaderboard (but in the same ballpark)... however it is substantially fewer points. But that doesn't seem to be just me... most of the leaderboard has a lot fewer points than the same spots on the board in the last couple years. I assume this means that a larger number of different people are managing to hit the various per-day leaderboards, and the points are getting spread out a lot thinner. Which is nice, means more people are getting involved in the event.
