# 2 &ndash; Nuclear safety
Another simple one, solved by just not thinking too hard and coding up exactly what the puzzle says to do in the order it says to do it.

Need to check whether the sequence is monotonic? That's something you can check in a single pass, right? Just zip together pairs of items, and check their order, and... check all the orders are the same? So you'd want to collect them together and check you only get one result? Or... wait. How long are these lists again? Very short, you say. Well then. `s == sorted(s)` it is.

Similar for part 2... in theory you could probably do this in one pass, with some good logic, keep track of how many times the condition is violated, and fail out on the second error. Not trivial, since if, say, the 4th and 5th elements of the list are in the wrong order, you'd have to check both removing the 4th and removing the 5th, and see whether either of those works with the 3rd and the 6th... but it would be doable. But you know what is slower than that, but much easier to code? Just trying removing each element in sequence and passing them back to the part-1 solver.

Ultimately, I think a good solution could evaluate a row of the input in O(n) time, and my solution takes O(n&sup2;log(n)) time, I think. But it works.

This also makes me two-for-two so far on doing extra work because I was unsure about an aspect of the Python stdlib, and it was faster to just code for both possibilities. Yesterday it was being unsure if `Counter.__getitem__` had a default, today it was being unsure if `sorted` returned a list, or an iterator. Thinking about it now, calmly, I do remember that it's `reversed` that just returns an iterator now, and `sorted` still returns a list... and it makes sense for it to be like that. But in the moment, I wasn't sure, and it was easier to wrap it as `list(sorted(s))` and eat the unnecessary copy, than to check if it was needed.

There was some time lost in part 1 because I was doing this `s == list(sorted(s))` check, but `s` was a `tuple`, not a `list`. That confused me for a little bit, but I caught it in time.

What I lost more time to, unfortunately, was that the AoC website got hit with a DDoS right as today's puzzle unlocked, so I couldn't get in for a couple minutes. Maybe I could've gotten in a bit earlier if I'd just hammered on F5 until it loaded... once I did manage to get it in, it was very intermittent, and I had to refresh every pageload a couple times before it would load... but I wasn't hammering it that hard, because I didn't want to be part of the problem. I'm not sure exactly what time I managed to get in, but there are definitely times on the leaderboard (even the both-stars leaderboard) with times earlier than when I first managed to even load the puzzle. So I have my finish times, but as far as I'm concerned there's a pretty big asterisk next to them.

Ultimately, though, I'm still happy with my results, even if I am stuck wondering about what might have been...

235/109*
