# 3 &ndash; Need mul in a haystack

So. For the first couple of nights this year, I'd been getting my script file ready for the race by just copy/pasting a previous script and removing all the actual gubbins, just keeping the rough shell and structure (as little as it is). Last night, I noticed that this meant I was copying around a random `import` at the top of the file... you may note that both [01.py](01.py) and [02.py](02.py) this year have `import re` despite doing no regular expression stuff... this is because I started this whole thing by copying [2023/01.py](../2023/01.py) which did use regexes.

So I figured... if I'm gonna be doing this anyway, may as well just pre-prepare a script file that imports a whole bunch of stuff I use all the time, just to save me a couple seconds of typing if it comes up. Importing `collections`, `math`, that sort of thing. And while I was putting it together, I went back and forth on whether there was any point on including `re` in that list... I mean, how often do regular expressions actually come up in these? I ultimately decided to include it, just in case, what was the harm.

Anyways, here we are, the very next day, with a puzzle solved by regular expressions.

Very little of interest to talk about in the implementation here. Part one works by finding all of the `mul` functions, according to the spec (normally I would throw in a bunch of `\s*`'s scattered throughout the expression, but the spec was very explicit that extra spaces do _not_ count). Part two just involved matching all of the relevant functions in a single expression, so that the `findall` returns all of them in the order they appear, so we can do stateful stuff with them.

I did get lucky that I happened to remember how `re.findall` works, without having to look it up (thus breaking my streak of forgetting how stuff works)... in particular, that it returns a sequence of tuples of group values, not a sequence of match objects. Though I did have to run the script and get an error before I remembered I needed to convert those matches to `int` before I could multiply them.

I also completely missed the line in the spec that said they were a maximum of 3 digits long, so my regex does say `\d+` and not `\d{1,3}`, so I'm very glad that the actual puzzle input doesn't test on that.

[109/55]
