# 5 &ndash; Stateless-ionery

Made a couple of mishaps on this one.

First, I hesitated on thinking whether the ordering provided was a total order. Turns out, it is in fact a total order, ie every pair of numbers that appears in the input, appears in one order or the other in the ordering. And it is implied to be by the worked example, it lists every pair of pages in the example and shows that all of them are in the ordering. But the puzzle text doesn't explicitly _say_ it's a total order, and I wasn't about to spend the time checking during the race.

So I decided the safe thing to do was to check for failed rules, rather than checking for successful rules... that is, "for each pair `a`,`b` in the record, check that `b|a` is not a provided ordering" rather than "check that `a|b` _is_ a provided ordering". That way if neither `a|b` nor `b|a` were in the list, then it would still be let through. Ultimately, the time spent worrying about this (and spent making sure the negated logic all worked out properly) was unnecessary.

Then, for part 2, we had to do the sorting. At this point I figured it was much more likely we were given a total order, and didn't have to try to sort these from a partial order and deduce transitive orderings, etc... I would totally expect an AoC puzzle to do that, but maybe in a couple weeks from now, not this early. Still, I made my sorting function throw an exception if neither ordering was present in the list, so I'd catch it if it happened.

Luckily, I remembered `cmp_to_key` exists, to be able to use Python's sorting builtins from an arbitary comparison function. Unluckily, I didn't remember immediately which way around the return values from a `cmp` method go, it's been a while since I've had to use one. I did manage to dredge out my mnemonic and figure it out, but then immediately after realised... we're looking for the _middle_ value from the sorted list, it doesn't matter if I get it backwards. Oh well.

And then, of course, I completely miss the requirement that part 2 is only supposed to look at the rows that _aren't already sorted_, so I got the wrong answer. It was trivial to copy the is-sorted condition from the part 1 loop into part 2 to fix this, but then I still had to eat the 1 minute wrong-answer penalty. But I was out of the running for the leaderboard by more than a minute, so this on its own wouldn't have been enough to get me on there.

[153/156]
