# 6 &ndash; Lost in an empty maze

Middling results today... we're coming up on the time when pure brute force might be too much brute force, and I need to start thinking about optimisation, y'know, at all.

For Part 1, had a few hiccups... first, I initially missed that it wanted the number of _distinct_ spaces visited, not just the full length of the path taken, I caught that one before submitting the wrong answer but it meant I had to retrofit a set of visited points into the code. Secondly, I just took it as given that the path would, eventually, leave the board, and it wouldn't end up looping... which was true, but preparing for needing loop detection would have helped with part 2.

I did remember lessons from past years, that it's much easier to deal with directions as a vector, instead of as an enum... so instead of having `direction in [0,1,2,3]` I have `(dx,dy) in [(1,0), (0,1), (-1,0), (0,-1)]`. Makes the actual traversal code nicer, though the rotation step always messes me up. I know it's either `dx, dy = dy, -dx` or `dx, dy = -dy, dx`, depending on which way you want to rotate, but it always takes me a bit to figure out which is which. It also doesn't help that at first I wrote it as `dx, dy = -dx, dx`, a bug which quickly resulted in `dx = dy = 0` and the loop ran forever.

Part 2, I did with a pure brute force, and it was stretching the friendship a little. My final code ends up taking about 40s to run, which is just long enough for me to think that something might have gone wrong. It goes through every square on the board, and tries placing an obstacle there, to see if it results in a loop (which involved lifting my part-1 solution to a function, and retrofitting loop detection to it).

There were a couple of reasons why I went with the full search of checking every square instead of being smarter about it... I did think that I'd only need to check the spaces where adding a block would be "relevant", but without thinking it through, I thought that might be complicated... you need to check every square on the path, and every square that you consider moving onto while walking the path... I didn't realise at the time that "every square that you consider moving onto, and is a spot we could place a new obstacle" is, by definition, a space that we then walk onto, so only squares on the path need to be considered.

The other consideration is that I guessed the grid was about 100x100, and my answer for part 1 was nearly 5000, so I figured I was already covering about half the grid, so trying to follow the track probably wouldn't achieve much. Turns out the grid is a fair bit bigger than that, so only checking the squares on the path would be a 3-4x speedup over checking everything. Still, that's not nothing.

My last mistake was that I got the condition backwards... I counted how many positions still let the guard escape, not how many trapped it in a loop. Caught that one before submitting, too, but I didn't want to just reverse the condition and run it again, given how long it took, so quickly threw together a thing to count how many spaces on the grid were options (ie no obstacle and not the starting space) and subtracted my answer from that.

Given how thoroughly unsure and off-centre I was with my code the whole time, I'm very happy that both of my answers were accepted first try, even if I missed the leaderboard again.

[296/112]
