# 8 &ndash; RF diffraction

A lot of discussion on this one to do with some ambiguity in the puzzle description... in that the puzzle for part 2 says "any grid position exactly in line with two antennas of the same frequency", but the worked description implies you should just be looking at integer multiples of the vector between the antennas. In theory, if there are, for example, two antennas that are `(2,4)` apart, then it should result in antinodes separated by `(1,2)`, as all of those points are "in line" with those two antennas. Including the point directly _between_ the two antennas.

However, as it turns out, this ambiguity doesn't come up, for the puzzle input, no two antennas of the same frequency are separated by a vector where the two components share a common factor... they're all already in least terms, when treated as a fraction (or a gradient). So either interpretation will get you the right answer.

For me in particular, I didn't think about it too hard... I kinda realised the ambiguity was there, in the back of my mind, but since it wasn't called out in the worked example I decided to ignore it and hope everything would be fine, and it was. If it had given me the wrong answer, then I would have looked into it then.

So I just go with the basic solution... I group all the antennae together by their frequency, and then go through all the pairs and, for part 1, mark the two points on either side, and for part 2, iterate in each direction until I leave the range of the grid, marking each step. And use a `set` to automatically dedupe the results.

[128/82]
