# 9 &ndash; SPEEDISK.EXE

I was my own worst enemy right here, repeatedly solving a puzzle that was more complicated than the actual one that had been set. And if I'd actually read the worked example, it would have cleared everything up, but no, I just skim-read the instructions and dove in.

For part 1, at least, everything went pretty smoothly. One counter working backwards from the end, to keep track of the blocks being moved, and one counter working forward from the beginning to keep track of where they're being moved to, stop when they meet in the middle.

For part 2, though... at first, I thought it was trying to say that you'd repeatedly move the highest-indexed file that could be moved... so, for the worked example, the result would have been: the `9`s move first, then the `8`s can't move, then the `7`s get moved, but this frees up space so now the `8`s _can_ move so we go back to them... but that's not how the puzzle works, you just do a single pass through the files from highest index to lowest, and then you're done. Which, relevantly, means that moving a file will never "free up" space for another file, as all the files you have remaining to consider, are already to the left of the file you just moved.

And then there was another trap that I was real happy that I spotted and was ready to not fall into it... until it turned out the trap didn't exist, and I was overcomplicating. That is, avoiding considering self-intersection. Like, in the worked example, the `9`s move first, and then we consider the `8`s... we _could_ move the `8`s one block to the left. Sure, there's not a block of free space there _now_, but once we move the `8`s there will be... it's essentially freeing up space for itself. And so I built this whole thing that when it's looking for a space to move into, it looks for blocks that are unallocated, _or_ are allocated to the file we're trying to move. Which was neat, but wrong, as it's not how the actual puzzle works, as the example makes clear.

And all of this dragged me away from having a good data structure for this... like, I'm not super familiar with the intricacies of how a [freelist](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_list) is built, but I'm sure I could have thrown something basic together and made it work well. But instead I had essentially a set to cover whether a given block was free or occupied, and then I scanned that. Which sure, was cheaper than checking all the other files for intersections, but still not super efficient. Ultimately, it worked, but runtime is almost 2 minutes, which isn't great.

[76/238]
