# 10 &ndash; Going mountainclimbing

Oof, what a mess of a day.

This one came at the end of a rough day at the dayjob, so I was already pretty brain-exhausted to begin with. And then, this puzzle, just really got to me.

It's in the same _shape_ as other puzzles, where there are a _lot_ of paths through the grid, and it was important to dedupe paths that go through the same node, if you wanted to finish in time.

It turns out, this time around, that wasn't really necessary... the puzzle put a pretty severe limit on the length of any given path, so there's only so many paths that are even possible. Even in the worst possible case, there's still only a few thousand different paths to enumerate through. So the brute force approach would actually get there just fine. And then the change for part 2 just means _removing_ some code for deduping the final destinations, and just counting all of the paths, which your code was already enumerating anyway.

Meanwhile, my code is here aggressively pruning paths that land on a node it's seen before, so that it only investigates each route once. And then for part 2, it needs to keep track of how many paths got pruned, so it can add them together. And my brain is fried and refusing to put everything together in order properly, so everything keeps breaking...

In part 1, I lost a bunch of time because I had a `break` instead of a `continue`, so the algorithm was bailing out entirely the first time it visited a node it had seen before, and that took me a while to track down. And then in part 2, at one point, I'm adding the path count for each location _after_ it's already propagated the counts to the next layer, so the addition wasn't carrying through. Then I moved the addition to a different order, but it wasn't happening for the final destination, so it'd count all the routes to the first `8` next to a `9`, but then if there is a second `8` next to that `9` those would be thrown away. And more problems like this. And each time, once I manage to track down the problem, I just solve it by rearranging bits and pieces of the code in rather haphazard ways trying to make it work. The end result is even more of a mess than normal.

All in, this kinda hurt my brain, and then I get to read a lot of my friends talking about how this was an easy puzzle, and part 2 was easier than part 1. Ah, such is life.

[868/1573]
