# 11 &ndash; The lanternfish strike back

Every year in AoC... honestly, several times a year... there is a puzzle, where part 1 is a very obvious trap. But it is not entirely obvious what sort of trap it is.

It could be, the trap is "part 1 has this simplifying assumption you can make... but part 2 changes the rules, so you can't make that assumption any more, do it properly". But it could also be "part 1 is small enough that you can just code it directly without worrying about any tricks... but part 2 massively increases all the numbers, so you need to do this simplifying trick". It's not obvious ahead of time which way it's going to go, and if you plan for one trick, you'll fall headfirst into the other.

One day, though, I'll learn that AoC tends to to the second trick _way_ more often than the first trick. And it's what they did here today. Which is a shame, because I leaned a bit towards the first one, and it didn't quite work out.

In my defense, they totally could have had part 2 to add some additional rule that has the stones depend on their neighbours in some way, or whatever.

Anyway, for actual solutions... part 1 was solved directly as described, keeping a list of all of the stone values, iterating the whole thing as a list each step.

That obviously wasn't gonna cut it for part 2, but now it was clear that each stone was being treated individually, so no need to solve the whole list at once. And then it's likely that multiple stones will be seeing the same values as they go, so memoising it all will probably cut down on the repetition. And that all works.

Thinking after the fact, another solution could have been to do something like the old [lanternfish puzzle](../2021/06.md) &ndash; still iterate the entire set of stones from one step to the next, but instead of maintaining a list of all the stones, instead just track a counter of _how many_ stones there are for each distinct value. Then if two stones of different values converge onto the same value, those piles can be combined into a single pile for the next step. Ultimately, that's the same thing as what the cache is doing, but all at once each step.

On the other hand, from discussions about this puzzle, I've now learned that Python apparently has a [caching decorator in the stdlib now](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functools.html#functools.cache) so that's neat to have in my toolbox going forward.

[188/88]
