# 12 &ndash; Good fences make good puzzles

I think I saw through time a little bit with this one.

Part 1 was pretty straight-forward. A basic flood-fill algorithm to identify a region, repeat until we have all the regions, so far so normal. Then we can count the perimeter for each one by iterating over it and finding all the points inside the region whose neighbours are outside the region, easy peasy, moving on.

Part 2, though... I was getting ready to do this in the "direct" way, ie building a list of all of the fences and then doing some work to collect them into distinct sides, so that we can then count how many different sides there are... but that seemed like a lot of work to do. I tried to think if there were any other ways to do it, like walking around the perimeter so that consective fences in the same side are all together, but that didn't seem that easy anyway (and I'm glad I didn't pursue that as it would have had a heck of a time with things like regions with holes in the middle). But what I did think was "ok, so we go through all the fences, and then if there's another fence right next to it, we combine them together into a single fence", and then "wait, but we don't need to actually combine them, because all we care about is the count" and finally "so we just go through all the fences, and just _ignore_ any fences that have a neighbour in a particular direction, that'll make sure that only one fence on each side counts", and finally "with a bit of work, that can all be rolled into the same loop where we identify the fences in the first place".

This entire chain of reasoning happened _very_ quickly for me, as one big flash of inspiration, and it felt like I was seeing the code behind the Matrix.

And so this is what we end up with... for each direction when we check if there is a fence there, we also check if there is a neighbouring fence (in a fixed direction). Eg, when we're checking if there is a fence to the north, we check if there is a neighbouring fence to the west of that. And if there's one there, we skip counting this one.

The way this breaks down to the actual logic, is that if we're looking at point `(x,y)`, which is in the region, and the point `(x,y-1)` is _not_ in the region, then there is a fence to the north. But if it turns out that both `(x-1,y)` is in the region and `(x-1,y-1)` is not in the region, then that fence has a neighbour to the west, so we skip it. It doesn't really matter whether we check west or east... we don't even have to be consistent, with different orientations of fences, just as long as all north-facing fences are checked the same way, it'll work out.

[308/3]
