# 13 &ndash; Why is this claw machine full of red herrings?

So many little tricks in this one to try to drag you down the wrong path... always talking about "the cheapest way to win", and dropping that no solution requires more than 100 presses... just generally implying you'll need to do some search of the possibility space to find a bunch of solutions, and then evaluate them to find the best one.

But no, this is a system of two linear equations in two unknowns, most of the time it will have only one solution. The only exception is when both buttons move the claw in the exact same direction (though possibly by different amounts), which would make the result more complicated, however this happily does not come up for any of the scenarios in the input, they all have the two buttons moving in different directions. This guarantees that the problem will have exactly one solution in the reals (or the rationals), and the only thing we need to check is if they're natural numbers.

And solving a linear system of equations is simple, just plug it into a matrix and do matrix stuff to it, and the answer falls out. Problem is, while I've been thinking for a _while_ that I really should add some matrix stuff to my AoC pre-built utils toolbelt, I never got around to it, so I have to hand-roll it every time. Now, inverting a 2x2 matrix is simple, there's a quick and easy formula for it. But I managed to mess it up several times trying to implement it.

The first time around, I had my variables named `ax`, `ay`, `bx`, `by`, for the distance moved by the claw in the X direction when pressing button A, etc. Then for the inverse matrix I called them `xa`, `ya`, `xb`, `yb`. What I didn't notice, is that these variables aren't in the same position in their matrices... like, the top left of both matrices are `ax` and `xa`, and the bottom right is the same... but the top-right of the original matrix ix `bx` but the top-right of the inverse matrix is `ya`, not `xb`. As a result, I was actually calculating the _transpose_ of the inverse matrix, and I was getting the wrong answers out as a result. But I just couldn't see where it was wrong.

So I scrubbed that function entirely and started again, this time naming the variables `a`, `b`, `c`, `d`, like how they are in the standard inverting-a-matrix formula I was referencing. And I implemented that inverse matrix exactly how the formula says. Except... the values in the input text file are written as:
```
Button A: X+{a}, Y+{c}
Button B: X+{b}, Y+{d}
```
and I didn't think that through, so hey guess what, I got the matrix transposed _again_. So not only was I still getting wrong answers, I was getting the _same_ wrong answers.

I was pulling my hair out at this point, eventually decided to try to double-check my answers, because maybe it actually did add up right, so I calculated how far the claw would move for the number of A and B presses I was calculating, and nope, it didn't add up. But, on a whim, I tried swapping `b` and `c` in that calculation, and it _did_ add up. So suddenly it became obvious what had happened, I swapped `b` and `c` in my solver function, and now it was giving the right answers.

Part 2, then, was essentially free. It was basically "oh, did you fall for our red herrings? no, do it properly".

I didn't realise until after, that my code only actually checks whether the resulting values are _integers_, it doesn't check that they are _positive_. I am lucky that this is not something that the input actually tests.

[850/157]
