# 16 &ndash; Mazey Races

Every year, there's an AoC puzzle that is "implement Dijkstra's again, but with a twist" and every time, I reimplement Dijkstra's again from memory. And every time I do it, I do it in a new and exciting terrible way.

With how many times I've written a Dijkstra's implementation for an AoC puzzle over the years, you'd think I'd be good at it by now. And yet.

Maybe I should have a stock Dijkstra's implementation that I can just plug the details into... but on the other hand, there's always some bonus twist in there that means making changes to get new info out of the core of the algorithm, and today's is no different.

So yeah, part 1 is just a standard Dijkstra's implementation, not particularly efficient, but it works well enough. I was a bit worried at first, because I know Dijkstra's tends to have some difficulty when there are massive differences in scale between the costs of different options... like, because turning is so much more expensive than moving, the algorithm will want to fully explore _every_ option that can be reached by moving before it will ever consider turning. However, I figured this would probably be fine, because the fact that the cheap option is only "move forward", there's a severely limited number of times it can do that before it hits a wall, and then it runs out of search space, so it'll be forced to consider turning pretty quickly.

If it had been too slow, I would have started to look into optimisations like reducing the maze to just a graph of the intersections of the maze, rather than a graph of every single square in the maze... but it ran in like 3 seconds, which is plenty fast enough already.

The one small hiccup is that we don't know what orientation we will be when we reach the exit on the fastest route (at least in theory... turns out my input has the E in a dead-end, so there's only one real approach direction), so we run the algorithm until we have an answer for the exit location facing in each direction, and then find the minimum of those four.

(One final note: as noted [before](06.md) I can never remember which one of `dx, dy = dy, -dx` and `dx, dy = -dy, dx` is which rotation direction, but the puzzle allows rotating in either direction, so I just get to do both and never actually figure out which is which. Which is nice.)

For part 2, we need to keep track of the set of every grid square that is on _any_ optimal-length path. Which (1) makes me glad I didn't do that optimisation, and the path-solving is still visiting every grid square, and (2) was not that complicated to add, if a little fiddly. Since we're already keeping track of the shortest route to every square, as a part of Dijkstra's... so we maintain a set of all the squares that are on any optimal-length path to each square, as a part of that. Then, if we find a shorter path to a square, we _replace_ the set for that square with our new route. But if we find a new _equal-length_ route, then we _union_ our new route into the existing routes for that square.

Then, again at the end, since we don't know which approach direction to the final square is optimal, we check all four directions to find out which is minimal, and then take the minimal routes that approach in that direction. In the event  that multiple directions are equal, we union the routes for each direction. Huzzah.

[494/187]
