# 17 &ndash; The spectre of Intcode lives on

Wow, that sure was a puzzle.

I got sidetracked at release time, and didn't get started until about 5 minutes late, which definitely hurt my times, but also got me real frazzled implementing this machine... I made so many mistakes on these opcodes. I had `if operand < 4: combo = 4` instead of `combo = operand`. I implemented `bxl` and `bxc` with `|=` instead of `^=`. I implemented `bdv` and `cdv` as reading from the same register they write to, instead of reading from `A` and then writing to `B` and `C`. So many mistakes, and many of them not in modes that were caught by the sample program, but were only caught when entering my final answer into the site. I had to spend a lot of time having my code output the state of the machine for every instruction, and going through it line by line to make sure it was behaving correctly.

So by the time I finally got the right answer for part 1, with a leaderboard ranking in the high hundreds, I figured the race was over. But on to part 2 regardless.

And, as expected, part 2 required actually knowing what this program was doing, so I open up some scratch notes to disassemble it. My program looked like:
```
bst A
bxl 7
cdv B
adv 3
bxc
bxl 7
out B
jnz 0
```
decoding this into pseudocode and simplifying, it ends up looking like:
```py
while A:
	B = A & 7
	C = (A >> (7^B)) & 7
	print(B ^ C)
	A >>= 3
```
so it reads the lowest 3 bits of `A`, then xors that with 3 bits from another location in `A`, and that's what it outputs. So, working backwards from the answer, for it to re-output the same program, we need its first output to be a `2`. This means that, either:

* The lowest 3 bits of `A` are `0`, and the lowest 3 bits of `A>>7` are `2`
* The lowest 3 bits of `A` are `1`, and the lowest 3 bits of `A>>6` are `3`
* The lowest 3 bits of `A` are `2`, and the lowest 3 bits of `A>>5` are `0`
* etc

That's a bunch of different possibilities, and that's just for the first output... then it shifts and we need to also handle the next output, and all of these are overlapping. And we also want to find the _minimal_ value of `A` that works, which (in particular) means that for the later outputs we don't want to have it shifting too deep into `A` as that means `A` would need to be a lot larger. It's a lot, and I'm not entirely sure if it can be done analytically. I'm very interested to know if it's possible, but all I saw was a big search space that I didn't know how to trim down.

So I just wrote some code to search that space for me. It considers each of the options in turn that would make the first output correct, then recurses to consider each of the following outputs, to consider all the options. And it maintains a list of which bits in `A` have already been fixed by previous outputs, and which ones are still available to be changed, and then on each step it only considers options which are consistent with the bits it has already fixed.

This ends up generating a list of candidate values which should, in theory, generate outputs that match the provided input _at least to start with_... but they don't all match it exactly. Some of them will generate an output that consists of the provided input, and then some extra values following it. So, we take our list of candidates and run the original program using each one, and _check_ if they actually work. From those, we manage to get a list of all the values of A that provide the desired output (in my case, there were 8 distinct values of `A` that would work), and then find the minimum as required.

(With hindsight, I can see that adding a condition that it doesn't generate any extra trailing outputs is just a case of making sure `A` doesn't get too big... ie capping the length of `A` to at most 3n bits, if we need to generate n outputs... would not have been too hard to add, and would probably have sped things up, but the code works without it.)

A little unsatisfying (and I'm sure runtime would blow out if we had to find a value that would output a much longer sequence) but it works, and the runtime only ended up being about 2.5 seconds.

[645/38]

If I'd started on time then I still would've been nowhere near the part 1 leaderboard, but my part 2 standing might've been about 10 spots higher... maybe more if I wasn't as flustered and didn't make as many mistakes at the beginning. But that's not the world we're in, and these are the results I have.
