# 19 &ndash; Speedy backtracking

Well that sure was a quick one for this late in the event. Done in under 4 minutes, and still didn't hit the leaderboard.

For part 1, I made use of our good friend, the regular expression. Like, for the worked example, where our available list of patterns is `r, wr, b, g, bwu, rb, gb, br`, we build the regular expression `^(r|wr|b|g|bwu|rb|gb|br)*$`, which will match any of the designs that can be built form those patterns. Then just run that against them all, and count the matches.

For part 2, what we would like is to be able to take that same regex, and ask "how many ways can this match?"... but I don't believe that's something that the Python `re` library is equipped to answer. So, instead, we build our own basic backtracker... we check which of the patterns can be used at the very beginning of the design, remove them from the string and recurse, counting up how many possibilities make it to the end cleanly.

Now, as this goes it will likely end up at the same position in the string multiple times... like, for the worked example, all of `g`, `b` and `gb` are acceptable, so when a design starts with `gb...` then the backtracking solver will be trying to find solutions from the 3rd position in the string, multiple times, and it would get the same result each time. And this continues, with the number of potential duplicate calls growing exponentially as the string grows. So we slap a memoisation wrapper on there and hope that's good enough. Which, it turns out, it is.

[138/137]
