# 20 &ndash; Cheaters never win, winners never cheat

It took me a little while to see the trick here, though it was blindingly obvious in retrospect.

As I was reading through, I thought the puzzle was going to be finding the _best_ place to cheat, so before I'd even finished reading the puzzle, I'd already thrown together some Dijkstra's work to solve that... the keys for the nodes would be a triple `(x, y, has_cheated)`, so you'd start at `(sx, sy, 0)`, and then in addition to the normal neighbours, any node `(x,y,0)` would be neighbouring any other node `(x',y',1)` that was within two steps. This worked great, and then I kept reading the puzzle and saw that the actual task was something completely different, so that got thrown away.

First attempt at solving the actual puzzle, I did it directly... still Dijkstra's, but I had a function to run Dijkstra's on the maze with a particular cheat spot. And then I'd run that for each of the cheat options. This would work, but it was horrifyingly slow. As is usual, I left that running in another tab while I tried to come up with a better answer, and it did eventually finish, but it took over 10 minutes to run through (easily long enough for me to come up with a faster version and move on).

But while that was going on, I was trying to think of optimisations, what parts of the process could I avoid re-calculating every time, when I finally put it together: if we run Dijkstra's _twice_, once from the start point, and once from the end point... then we can use the resulting distance maps to find the value of _any_ cheat, because the route through any cheat is: the distance from the start to the cheat entrance (pulled straight from the first distance map), then the time spent in the cheat itself (always 2 for part 1), then the distance from the cheat exit to the end of the maze (pulled straight from the second distance map). So we can quickly iterate through all the cheat options and check each individual one very quickly.

Part 2 is then a very straightforward change, we just need to change the code for listing all the cheat options... each one is still just a single entrance and exit point, and the downstream calculations are all identical. Though, one mistake I did make was that the time spent in che cheat itself now varies, it's the Manhattan distance between the entrance and exit... at first I left this as `+ 2` and got the wrong answer out.

Now, if part 2 had been something like "you can now cheat twice", suddenly it would have been a _very_ different puzzle. I'm glad it wasn't.

[365/198]
