# 21 &ndash; Just following orders

Wow, that sure was a puzzle. I think this is the first time I've managed to hard crash most of my PC while working on an AoC puzzle.

Even for part 1, there was a lot going on. Finding an optimal route at each level is relatively straightforward, like if I know what buttons I want a robot to press, it's trivial to come up with an optimal string of button presses to send to that robot. But this property of optimality doesn't necessarily extend to multiple levels. In particular, there will be multiple different optimal button strings that can be fed into robot 1 to make it output the same result, and those will each result in different, and potentially _different-length_ button strings that need to be fed into robot 2. And again for robot 3.

Like, say robot 1 is currently pointing at `0` and we need to move up to, say, `6` and press it. So we could send robot 1 `^^>A` or `^>^A` or `>^^A`, all of which are the same length. But to make robot 2 send those, we would send (respectively) `<AAv>A^A` or `<Av>A<^A>A` or `vA<^AA>A`. Obviously the middle one is longer, it would be more efficient to press the two `^`s together rather than mixing them up, but the other two options are still the same length, but look quite different, so who knows how they'll behave at later levels. It feels like there should be a way to determine what's going to be the optimal route, but nothing came to mind.

So, we consider both options. Discard the options that have the directions mixed up, but that leaves two choices at each step: either move horizontally then vertically, or move vertically then horizontally. Sometimes, our hand is forced... if the movement is _only_ vertical or _only_ horizontal, then there's no choice to make. And if one of the two options will move the pointer over the empty corner then that's also no good. But in general, we generate both options.

This gets combinatorically explosive... the number of options at one level is roughly two the power of the number of diagonal movements in that code. And then for each option, we need to pass that to the next level, which explodes further. But with an `@cache` in what I hoped would be a useful spot, it seemed to be tame enough to do part 1 at least.

But then I saw part 2, and I knew that wouldn't be nearly good enough.

I essentially threw out most of my part 1 code, and started over (in the repo, my part 1 code is in [21a.py](21a.py) while my final code that does part 1 and 2 is [21.py](21.py)).

My main realisation is we don't need to build up the entire path in one go. If we want to find the best code to enter, say, `029A`, that's going to be the best way to get from `A` to `0`, plus the best way to get from `0` to `2`, etc. We don't need to consider the cartesian product of _every_ way to get from `A` to `0`, times _every_ way to get from `0` to `2`, etc, and then only do a `min` at the final step. We can break it down into individual movements and do a `min` at every level. And, on top of that, we can do more aggressive caching... if we already know the most efficient way for, say, robot 13 to get from the `^` button to the `>` button, we don't need to calculate that again if it comes up later, we can re-use the result. Which severely limits how much work we have to do, because most of the robots are looking at a pad with only 5 buttons on it, that's only 20 different movements we need to find an optimal path for, at each level of the recursion.

Unfortunately, I didn't think it entirely through, and my first attempt at building this was still having the function return the entire string of arrows and `A`s at each level, and then only taking the `len()` of it at the end. Which is a problem when some of these are _tens of millions_ of button presses long, and all of them are being stored in this cache. The cache rapidly grew to an unreasonable level... while I was waiting for the script to run I suddenly noticed that switching between programs was taking a bit longer than I'm used to, and my HDD was spinning, which is a good sign that I'm doing _something_ that's using an _absurd_ amount of memory. Popped up `top` and saw the script was using, like 25GB of RAM, and climbing, and the OS was trying its best to swap everything else out to make room. That obviously wasn't going to work, so I Ctrl+C'ed the script and waited for the computer to recover. Unfortunately again, the computer was already too far gone, and the Ctrl+C didn't actually work, and I didn't notice. So what I thought was me watching my HDD spin waiting for everything to swap back in, was in fact even more stuff being swapped _out_ to make room.

By this time, nothing on my desktop was working at all. Couldn't interact with anything that was running, couldn't switch windows, even pressing Caps Lock on my keyboard wasn't making the lights blink, which is never a good sign. As a last ditch effort, I did manage to SSH into my computer from my phone (always a good option to have in case of emergencies), run `top`, see that the script had grown to 50GB (my PC has 32GB of RAM total, so that was exciting to see). Managed to kill it from there, and wait for my PC to recover for real. A couple of minutes later, X had completely crashed and I'd been bounced back to the login screen, but after logging in I was back in action. What fun.

Note to self: maybe learn how to use `ulimit` for future puzzles, just in case.

An easy fix to the script though, just move the `len()` call inside the cached function, so it's only storing the length, not the entire string, in the cache. Now it runs in like 50ms.

Unfortunately, it gave the wrong answer. Annoyingly, it still gave the right answer for part 1, if I used the new code but still with 3 levels of recursion. But increase that to 26 levels for part 2 and the site insisted the result was wrong. And I had no idea why. I tried running it with 25 levels and 27 levels, in case I'd misunderstood, but nope, no help.

After a good 10 minutes of having absolutely no ideas, I eventually decided to try challenging that one assumption I'd made earlier, that for a diagonal movement you would want to make all the horizontal movements together and all the vertical movements together, and the only choice is which one to do first. Maybe it was worth changing it up and at least _trying_ the other options where they're interleaved. It seems like it shouldn't help anything, but I was out of ideas, and the new caching plan was working efficiently enough that it shouldn't cause the runtime to blow out much. So I pulled out the code for generating the list of movement options, and made a new one, that would try every permutation of the horizontal and vertical movements, while still avoiding going over the bad corner.

And the weirdest result happened... for some movements, it was insisting there were _no options_ for how to get there. Which didn't make sense. Until I realised it was trying to route a movement _onto_ the missing corner. My previous code happened to be written that this would still work, it only avoided sweeping _over_ the bad corner, but my new code happened to reject any routes that _ended_ on the bad corner too, so it was crashing when it tried. But why was it trying? Surely it had no reason to try to move onto the bad corner...

Well, it turns out there was a simple reason: I was avoiding the bottom-left corner in both button grids. But for the arrow grid, it's the _top_-left corner that we need to avoid.

Somehow this mistake did not affect my part 1 result at all, either for the sample input or my own, but it did affect part 2.

With that fixed, now it gives me the correct result for part 2. Even if I go back to the previous plan of always going horizontal then vertical or vice versa, and not attempting to interleave them.

And even after both crashing my PC and having to recover it, _and_ spending a good 10 minutes or so just staring at my code with no idea what to do next, somehow I still got points for part 2. Just shows that this is a _hard_ puzzle.

[11/89]
