# 25 &ndash; It can be opened with a Virtual Five-Pin Tumbler Lock

As always, a nice and easy simple puzzle for Christmas day. For my implementation, [at first](25.py) I did it all exactly as specified, I separated the inputs into locks and keys, I counted up the `#` marks in each column to get its numeric code, and then I looped through each pair of lock and key to see if the codes matched up.

But I realised pretty quickly while doing it, that a lot of this was superfluous... all we really care about is if the bitmap for the lock and the key have any overlap, and that's pretty easy to test directly, without having to do all the intermediate steps. I ignored this and just did it as specified out of habit, because usually some part of it would turn out to be required in part 2. Of course, the day-25 puzzle doesn't _have_ a part 2, and I knew this, but it didn't stop me.

Still, the more direct solution seemed straightforward enough that I [implemented it too](25a.py) after-the-fact, just to see if it really was that simple. I just convert each bitmap into a set, and check them pairwise to see if they intersect. I don't even bother separating the locks from the keys, since by how they're designed, all the locks will intersect with each other, as will all the keys. Ultimately the whole thing is solved in only a few short lines.

Still, managed to scrape together a final handful of points from this one, and ended the whole event in position 84 on the leaderboard. Which is lower than I've been on the past couple of years, but I don't think the leaderboards are all that comparable year-over-year, especially with how many leaderboard positions on the early puzzles this year are filled with people just passing it off to genai.

[124/96]
