# 25 - I already made the "twisty passages" joke, twice, and now this happens?
Well that's a fun way to end a competition. I liked it.

Solving this one was rather straightforward. First off, I hooked the Intcode machine directly up to `interact` so I could control it manually from the terminal, and used that to play the game normally. Once I had a map drawn, and a good idea about what the puzzle was (find the 8 collectables, figure out which combination of them you need to carry into the final room) I started trying to solve it manually, like I would for a real puzzle game.

Unfortunately, I'd neglected to pick up the `coin` in that run, and it turns out that it's one of the items needed in the solution, so I eventually managed to rule out every combination of items... I was pretty sure I'd made mistakes, though, I wasn't _super_ thorough. Rather than do it all again, I turned back to coding.

Now, instead of playing the game manually, I just feed in the sequence of instructions to gather all the items and bring them all to the Security Checkpoint. I then take a snapshot of the Intcode machine at that state, so that we can try different combinations of items without having to run through the whole gathering sequence every time. Then we feed in the commands to drop different combinations of items, and enter the final room.

There are only 256 combinations, so I initially wrote it as a simple brute-force and kicked it off. While it was running I tried to write a faster solution, which used the one piece of information the game gives you if you're wrong - heavier or lighter - to automatically rule out any supersets or subsets, respectively... but by the time I'd gotten started, the brute-force had finished.

So then it was just a case of going back to the interactive mode and trying out that combination to see what happened.
