# 7 &ndash; More nested containers than a Docker deployment
A lot of fun with the parser here. Once again, I'm sure this would be pretty simple to parse by just splitting on spaces, but I'm enjoying `ReadP` too much.

Interestingly, this puzzle is in the inverse order than I would have expected. The data set is a list of containers, and for each their contents... it's reasonably simple to traverse that forwards (ie for this container, what does it contain?) but requires an extra non-trivial step to traverse it backwards (ie for this content, what can contain it?). And yet the latter is the first star, while the former is the second star.

And, I do understand why &ndash; keeping track of the counts are a bigger complication that makes the second half definitely harder than the first half, which only has to care about existence. And it would require some amount of contrivance to come up with a puzzle that required you do work backwards through the map, and _also_ keep track of counts of some kind. So I get why it was done the way it was. Just a little surprising is all.

Anyway, another day, another puzzle that I'm surprised by how simple it is to write some quite complex operations in Haskell, when the stars align just right. Today's example: `foldl (M.unionWith (+))`, which lets me take a list of maps that are serving as counters, and combine them all together into a single totals map, in one fell swoop.

The one hiccup is that both of the algorithms I wrote for today include the `shiny gold` bag itself in the output, but the puzzle definition doesn't want that, so both of the calls in `main` have to `subtract 1` from the result to get the expected answer. Which is a little ugly, but the algorithms are so much simpler this way, so I stuck with it.
