# 13 &ndash; That modular arithmetic theorem I always forget strikes again
For the first part of this, I was trapped once again by the dangers of going too fast. My thought process as I solved this one: "OK, now I know I should check, is it just asking for the timestamp where the next bus arrives, or is there more to it? Aha! I'm glad I checked, they want us to multiply it by the bus id! Gotcha! \*enters number, presses Enter\* \*as I'm pressing Enter, reads the words "the number of minutes you'll need to wait"\* oh nooooo"

For the second half, though, I was slowed by my inability to ever remember that the Chinese Remainder Theorem exists. It's a very useful theorem, and every time I see it I can appreciate its usefulness... but then a puzzle like this comes up and I just stare at it being like "I'm sure there's a clever way to calculate this" and end up doing things a more dumb way.

What the puzzle is asking us, is that we have a sequence of busses, each of which has an `index` in the list, and an `id`... we need to find a value `x` such that `x + index` is a multiple of `id`. That is, `x = -index (mod id)`. We can combine these requirements together, one by one... if the first bus is at `index_0` with `id_0` and the second is at `index_1` with `id_1`, and the ids are co-prime, then there's a single number modulo `id_0 * id_1` that satisfies both conditions. The Chinese Remainder Theorem gives us the way to calculate it, but having forgotten that, we can just hunt for it by trying all the possibilities.

For these puzzles, when I'm racing for the leaderboard I'm just hacking away in the Python REPL, since that's the environment where I can work the fastest to try to get the answer... then, I'm essentially porting that solution to Haskell for this repository... and the Python code I had for this one was this:
```py
n=0
m=1
for ix, busid in buses:
  newm = lcm(m, busid)
  newn, = [i for i in range(n,newm,m) if (k+ix) % busid == 0]
  n, m = newn, newm

print(n)
```
(slightly edited for clarity, the real code had a lot more one-letter variable names...)

So, we're still doing better than a simple brute-force search, since we're only adding the requirements from one bus at a time, so each search doesn't take too long. As opposed to if we tried to brute-force satisfy all of the busses in one big search, which would require checking all the numbers from 0 up to about 6&times;10<sup>14</sup>... not particularly feasible.

Afterwards, though, I saw a mention of the Chinese Remainder Theorem, which gives a simple direct calculation which can be slotted in to replace that `newn, = [loop]` line in the code above, so in the Haskell implementation I used that, and the result is so much simpler. It helped that I already had an Extended GCD function in my `Utils` module, from [a previous puzzle](../2019/22.md), which is where the bulk of the heavy lifting for the CRT is done.
