# 15 - Don't know
(The title here is in reference to [Numberphile](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=etMJxB-igrc), which I assume that the makers of AoC are very familiar with.)

I'm not super happy with how this one turned out. I got the answers very quickly with a Python script &ndash; part A by a very simple direct method, and part B by taking advantage of an obvious-in-retrospect optimisation from the [OEIS page for this sequence](http://oeis.org/A181391) which involves keeping a dict from each number to the last index where it appeared, and using that for lookups instead of linearly searching through the list to find numbers' previous occurences.

But when it came to porting that algorithm to Haskell, I found myself experiencing problems, of the "surprise! the laziness is causing memory leaks" variety. As can sometimes be the case when you're accumulating a big value through a long series of calculations, what you can _actually_ end up accumulating is a massive thunk representing all of those nested calculations, which takes up a huge amount of memory... and then when you try to resolve that thunk to display the value, you risk a stack overflow as it tries to unravel everything. Miserable for performance, miserable for memory usage, and a whole mess to try to debug.

And lo, I was getting that here... with my solution for part B rapidly blowing up to using many gigabytes of RAM, and having to be Ctrl+Ced long before finding a solution.

After reading what information I could find about Haskell's profiling options and getting nowhere, I gave up and scattered "this parameter is strict actually" flags on everything I could find... and that certainly seemed to help somewhat. The current solution finds the solution in about a minute and a half (of realtime, several minutes of multithreaded CPU time), and takes over a GB of ram to get there. Which... seems a lot, still, but at least it works.

I tried a couple of other solutions, which I left in the [15.hs](15.hs) file... one replacing the explicit recursion with an `unfold`, which changed very little, and a second one trying to leverage the laziness to my advantage and using a pair of recursively-defined infinite lists, which, even after marking everything appropriate as strict, still takes 18GB of ram and 4 minutes (realtime, 18 minutes CPU time) to come up with a solution. Code looks a lot prettier, though, shame the performance is miserable.

And that's ultimately as far as I got. I'm not sure how to take this any further. Miserable performance for both time and memory usage, but it does get there in the end, and the answer is correct, so it'll just have to do.

[33/483]
