# 20 &ndash; All-sky jigsaw puzzles are less frustrating
Man, that was a rough one. Trying to keep everything straight through all the rotation operations was an absolute nightmare.

The absolute worst part is that: (a) there are 8 possible orientations of a tile, after rotations and reflections, (b) of those 8 orientations, 6 are their own inverses, only 2 have a different inverse, which means if you accidentally use a forward-rotation function when you should have use an inverse-rotation function, or vice-versa, it'll still work 75% of the time, and (c) in the test data, none of the 9 tiles are rotated using the 2 orientations with different inverses, so if you get the functions mixed up, _the test data will still pass_.

This tripped me up _constantly_. And every time, it was a nightmare to debug.

At least I had the forethought to make a battery of rotation-managing functions first-off, so that when I was working on the actual algorithms, I didn't have to worry about remembering how all the different rotations and reflections and whatnot interacted... so at least I didn't have any issues of "oh, I did the rotation before the reflection by mistake" or "oops I thought +y went up instead of down" or whatnot... but that doesn't help if you call the wrong function...

In the meantime, though, I did use this opportunity to go a _little_ bit deeper into monadic manipulations of stuff. Because we're trying to find which tiles can go in each location, based on the constraints from the tiles we've found so far... if we loop through, generating each tile in reading order, each tile has to match with the tiles above it and to its left (if any). So, we'd like to write something along the lines of
```hs
solve = do
  a <- alltiles
  b <- matchleft a
  c <- matchleft b
  d <- matchabove a
  e <- matchleftabove d b
  f <- matchleftabove e c
  g <- matchabove d
  h <- matchleftabove g e
  i <- matchleftabove h f
  return [[a,b,c],[d,e,f],[g,h,i]]
```
and this would work, but it's not very extensible... the grid we need to build from our real input is a lot bigger than the one we need to build from the test data, so we'd like that size to be dynamic.

Now, traditionally, in a procedural language, doing this sort of task calls for recursion, something like:
```py
def top_row(size, so_far):
	if len(so_far) == size:
		yield so_far
		return
	elif len(so_far) == 0:
		for i in alltiles():
			yield from top_row(size, [i])
	else:
		for i in matchleft(so_far[-1]):
			yield from top_row(size, so_far + [i])
```
and this approach would absolutely work in Haskell... but I wanted to try to do this with the list monad, because I felt like it _should_ be doable, and the result should be a lot simpler than the raw recursive solution. And I think that bore through.

The starting point here, is that in the static 3x3 version above, `alltiles` gives a list of possible values for `a`, and then `matchleft =<< alltiles` gives a list of all possible values for `b`, and `matchleft =<< matchleft =<< alltiles` gives a list of all possible values for `c`... and we can build that up to arbitrary depths. And for the later rows, it can also be achieved by `foldM` to iterate over the previous row. But that only gets us so far, as while we get some values for each spot, we don't know which correspond with which. To achieve that, I built a couple of utils, `scanM` and `iterateM`, which work analagously to `scanl` and `iterate`, to let us call these functions repeatedly, and extract the values at every level.

And so, the first three lines above:
```hs
  a <- alltiles
  b <- matchleft a
  c <- matchleft b
```
can instead be written:
```
	firstrow <- iterateM 2 matchleft =<< alltiles
```
and we can change that `2` to be however wide we need. And then the next row:
```
  d <- matchabove a
  e <- matchleftabove d b
  f <- matchleftabove e c
```
now becomes:
```
	nextrow <- (\x -> scanM matchleftabove x (tail firstrow)) =<< matchabove (head firstrow)
```
which also expands to match the size of the previous row... and then we can use `iterateM` again on this `nextrow` definition, to generate as many rows as needed.

The actual code in the solution is a _bit_ more complex than this, because it also passes around a `Set` of all the tiles that have been used so far in the grid, to also ensure the requirement that any given tile only appears once.

That's the bulk of the interesting code in the solution. There's some other interesting parts, though. For instance, to implement those `matchabove` functions, we go through and extract the bit patterns along each edge of each tile, and read them as binary numbers, to turn them into ints, because comparing two ints is a lot faster than extracting the edge of each tile and comparing them as lists, every time. That also lets us make a `Map` of the int signatures from each edge to the tiles they come from, so that once we know we're looking at a particular tile edge, we can efficiently get the list of all the tiles it could abut against.

The second part, ultimately, was not that complicated. We assemble all the tiles into a single image (getting about 25% of the tiles upside down, and not figuring this out for like an hour, but still...), and then we check it in each of the 8 orientations and scan it for sea monsters. Once we've picked our correct orientation, then remove any matched sea monsters, and count the remaining cells.
