# 22 &ndash; Strange game.
What a weird card game, first of all. You go through all that effort, and yet whoever has the highest-value card inevitably wins... as it's impossible for the highest-value card to switch decks. In the first game, it's a literal impossibility &ndash; whoever has the highest-value card will always win the round when it's revealed, so they _cannot_ run out of cards, so they _cannot_ lose. For the second game, revealing the highest-value card will never cause a subgame (because its value is as big as the total number of cards in the game, so must be larger than the number of cards remaining in that player's deck), so, again, it will always win, and the player who has it can never run out of cards... but that's not the only way to lose, so it is _theoretically_ possible if Player 2 has the highest-value card, and you trip the infinite-loop-prevention clause, for Player 1 to win. But that is exceedingly unlikely.

None of that matters to the puzzle, since the puzzle doesn't ask us to figure out who wins, it is asking about the final permutation of the deck, which means we still need to run the game. But still.

Actually running the game is not super complicated. Especially since they corrected from my issue yesterday, and have _extensive_ detail in their worked example. The first day is pretty straightforward, and while the second day is definitely more complicated, as someone who's theory-crafted my fair share of [Shahrazad](https://scryfall.com/card/arn/10/shahrazad) nested games, the idea of running a subgame that doesn't affect the main game, and then returning to the main game and doing something based on the subgame's winner... all makes sense to me.
