# 7 &ndash; Now where did I save that report...
A quite interesting puzzle for this early in the event... having to parse this unusual input and tease out the information that was needed.

The first trick, though, is to recognise that although this is a directory tree, we absolutely do not actually want to parse it into some sort of tree-like data structure. We don't care about the tree structure, we only care about each directory and the files in each. A flattened structure that's just a list of all the directories (at any depth in the tree) in one list is all we need. That might seem like it could cause a problem when we go to determine the total size of a directory including all its subdirectories, but that leads to the second trick: when we read that a file exists, say `a/b/c/d.txt`, we immediately add its size to the size counters for all of `a`, `a/b` and `a/b/c` at once, so the size counters for each directory already contain all the subdirectories.

Then, the tasks posed by both part A and part B are easy just reading off from that list.

During the race, while I was coding part A, I was pretty sure that part B was going to involve identifying individual files rather than entire directories, so my race solution also builds a listing of every file (with its full pathname), on the assumption that it would be needed (and it would be easier to build that in from the start than to retrofit it during part B). But it turns out that wasn't actually needed once part B was revealed, so that was unnecessary. Still, didn't hurt much to add, and I think it was a reasonable guess.

[10/6]
