# 9 &ndash; Nibbles.bas
My race code for this one is an absolute unreadable mess... for [part 1](09a.py), I wrote the loop to process the inputs and move the head of the rope, and then had an update function to update the tail of the rope in step, and keep track of the set of points that are visited. This worked, but was kinda hard to read. Then along comes [part 2](09b.py), and suddenly I need to rewrite a whole chunk of the code to be able to run on multiple different "tails", where previously it had been hardcoded to point to specific "head" and "tail" variables. The end result is horrible, but it works.

For the rewrite in Haskell, it is a lot clearer due to two main improvements: firstly, making it support an arbitrarily-length rope from the beginning, and also taking the time to actually think about the rules for how the tail follows the head, and realising it can be boiled down to just one stay-still condition and one movement condition (rather than having five separate movement conditions, in the Python code). Also, I do some fanciness with `scanl` to update all the tail positions in one step, nice and compact. There's also some minor benefit that I've already built a [directions helper](../Direction.hs) which genericises the movement a little, and also Haskell has a `signum` function which Python seems to lack.

Also, just for fun, I rendered out [an animation of how the rope moves](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/1050635291402190888/1050668633052942446/SPOILER_out.mp4). It's quite wibbly.

[66/32]
