# 11 &ndash; Monkey Magic
Well, that was wild.

The race solution for this takes a number of shortcuts... took quite a lot of editing of the input data in a text editor to munge it into usable data. And then processing the operations... that `old * old` one definitely threw in a curveball, but there was only one of those, so I just special-cased that one in particular and definitely didn't handle the general case. Aside from that, just plugging everything together.

For part 2, I hit a couple of roadblocks. First, I realised pretty quickly that I wanted to reduce all the values modulo the LCM of all the divisors that we needed to test with... but I frequently get LCM and GCD confused, and used the wrong one here (which is unfortunate, since the GCD of all the divisors is 1, and reducing everything modulo 1 is... unhelpful). Secondly, when I wrote the first part it was mutating the original data structure (to move the items around), so to do part 2, I wanted to take a deep copy of the structure and restore it for the second half. And I did that, but I was still getting the wrong result out. I thought something was going wrong with the copy, but I didn't have time to debug it, but I did eventually figure out that if I just commented out the part 1 stuff and only did part 2, it got me the right answer. After the fact, I realised that I was so focused on getting the deep copy working, that I completely forgot to reset the `count` variable, so it was adding to the counts from the first part. Oops.

For the Haskell one, I'm trying to be a _bit_ more functional with my code. Up until now I've done my fair share of `map`s and `fold`s, but I could be doing more with passing around functions as values. So for this one, when parsing the "operation" line, where before I would have turned an operation like `new = old + 2` into maybe `('+', 2)` and then had an evaluation function that processed those and did the addition... instead I have it parse directly to the function `(+2)`, which I can just directly apply later to do the addition. Only downside is that functions don't implement `Show` so I can't just print out the parsed data for debugging.

Then for the actual processing, I make use of the fact that the order of the items in each monkey's list doesn't actually matter. You still have to do each monkey one by one, in order, but all the items held by a single monkey can be processed in one sweep. Then that can be folded across all the monkeys to do a whole round, which can then be repeated to do as many rounds as needed.

I will definitely treasure my first-part leaderboard result for this puzzle for some time.

[1/27]
