# 16 &ndash; The one that broke me
Oof.

OK, so the first part of this was hard, but not _too_ bad. After some false starts, I ended up noticing that most of the valves in the data set had 0 flow rate, of the 60 valves only 15 actually have a nonzero flow. So the faster way to go about it in, instead of trying to iterate step-by-step and take different paths through the maze, instead just pick one of the remaining nonzero valves, head directly there, and turn it on. In theory that could mean checking 15! different permutations, but we can cut each branch of the search short when it hits the time limit. So built that strategy, and it ran through quite quickly.

But for part 2... ugh. I just couldn't come up with a good solution.

At first I went with the [basic solution](16a.py), where I use the same strategy to find all the different routes that the first person can take through the maze in 26 steps, and then for each one we re-run the search from the start, but pre-seeded with the "visited" set from the other path, to ensure they don't overlap. This works, but it's very slow, as it's kinda like we're searching 52 steps deep into the maze instead of 30, so we prune a lot less of the search space, it gets exponentially wider. This eventually came up with the answer, but it it took `36m44.594s` to get there.

While that was running, I also came up with a [second solution](16b.py), where instead I run the original strategy and build a full list of every route and its score, and then I double-iterate over that list to find routes that do not overlap, and dig out the final score. This feels like it should be more efficient, and it did come up with the right answer in the end, but it still took `29m37.618s` to get there. This is faster than the first solution, but not by much, and I spent like 15 minutes waiting on the first solution, trying other things, coming up with this idea, and starting it, so the original solution did still finish first.

It does feel like that second solution has legs, though... there's some obvious optimisations that could be done: the list would include multiple routes that visted the same set of valves but in a different order... eg the path `AA -> BB -> CC` and `AA -> CC -> BB` would both be in the list, and would have different scores, but since at this point we only care about _overlap_, we can de-dupe the list by only keeping whichever of those two has the higher score. That should reduce the list which would help the O(n&sup2;) step. Also, there are probably more efficient pruning algorithms than just checking every pair to see if they have an overlap... in particular, this feels _very_ similar to [that Matt Parker video](https://youtu.be/c33AZBnRHks) where people were able to improve on a naive solution by a factor of almost half a trillion... that was also a problem involving finding non-overlapping entries in a dataset. Maybe some of the approaches in there could be applied.

But, to be quite honest, I'm just done with this puzzle. I got my answer, got my stars, and I don't really have any desire to try to improve on the code I have. I'm not gonna build a Haskell version of this one, I've just got my race code and that'll do.

The fact that my submission times for the two parts were 25 minutes, and like an hour 10, and I still got this leaderboard position, basically sums up my experience today.

[116/122]
