# 17 &ndash; Тетри
Ah, the classic "part 2 is doing the same thing but _more_" puzzle... where, part 1 you can do without _too_ much trouble, just simulating each of the 2022 blocks and finding out where they land... but there's no way you could possibly do that for a trillion blocks, not with the most efficient algorithm in the world.

What we need is to find a cycle... since the blocks are periodic, and the directions are periodic, and the shape of the top of the well can repeat its shape... if we manage to get everything to repeat at the same time, then everything after that should evolve in the same way, and everything will be cyclic after that point (modulo being a certain distance higher on the well after each cycle). So then we can just calculate how many loops it will take to get to a trillion, and exactly where in the cycle we'll be, and calculate what the well height would be on step 10<sup>12</sup>.

My strategy was to make a fingerprint of the current well state, keeping track of all the things that would affect the future behaviour of the simulation, but throwing out things that didn't matter (like the absolute well height). What I decided on was to keep track of: (a) the current position in the block and direction cycles, and (b) the depth of each column of the well from the _top_ of the well. That meant that if the shape of the top of the well repeated, but at a different height, the fingerprint would be the same. This fingerprint isn't perfect... by only measuring the depth of the highest block in each column, we're not keeping track of the interior of any potential overhangs which could be accessible... it's possible that in an edge case, two wells could have the same fingerprint but actually differ in meaningful ways. But it worked correctly for the input we had to work with, so I'm OK with it.

Unfortunately, the code I came up with in the race had an off-by-one error, and I could not for the life of me during the race figure out why... when I ran it against the sample input, it calculated a height that was 1 too tall... and try as I might, I couldn't see anything that could be causing the height calculations to be off by one. It's not like the first part, where there was an error with it mixing up the difference between "the height of the well" and "the Y-coordinate of the highest block", which do differ by 1... but I wasn't making a mistake like that here. So I just slapped on a `- 1` correction factor, ran it on my input, plugged in the answer and hoped... and it ended up being correct, so I got my race result locked in, with code that still had an unresolved error.

I did eventually figure out what the bug was... I did have an off-by-one error, but it wasn't with the height, it was with the step counter. And it just so happened that the one-trillion-and-first block, in _both_ the sample input _and_ my personal input, caused the height of the well to increase by exactly 1. So it _looked_ like a consistent off-by-one of the height, but that was just luck. I don't usually go back and make changes to my Python code after the race, but that's more for efficiency problems... since this is an actual bug I did [make a change to fix it](https://github.com/mrphlip/aoc/commit/0807c0abca83b858461b771be2f0ed9a3cdbc228).

[10/4]
