# 20 &ndash; Kansas City shuffle
Spent a bit too long overthinking the first part of the puzzle here... I was trying to get a head-start on the assumption that the second part would be "ok, now mix the inputs a billion times" and you needed to properly solve the shuffle, and I just wasn't seeing how. I honestly still don't know, one way or the other, whether it's solvable (but I'm currently leaning towards "probably not").

There were also other hiccups, in that it took me a bit to realise that the modulus in the movement function needed to be `length - 1`, what the exact behaviour was for a number making the loop from one end of the list to the other. 

Also I fell into the trap that the sample worked input has all the numbers distinct, but the real input definitely includes duplicates, so a simple "loop through the numbers in the original order, and then search for that number in the current working list" doesn't actually work, they need to be tagged to be distinct so you can identify each individual entry as they're shuffled, even if their value is the same. I did this with something of a hack, in that I made each one an entire new object of a class that doesn't define equality, so that the `.index` method would only match on it being the same object by identity... there are probably much cleaner ways to do this, but this is the one that was the easiest to retrofit into my existing code.

After fixing that up, both parts of the code "just worked". I imagine the extra challenge in part 2 is if your handling for part 1 involved actually stepping each number one space at a time, rather than figuring out its final position and moving it in one step. Or if your process for looping around at the ends needed to be done repeatedly for each loop, rather than just using a modulus.

[101/51]
