# 21 &ndash; Monkey Numbers
For this one, I cheekily switched language to Haskell for the race... because it's a more declarative language, and lets you define stuff out of order, and the compiler will just figure it out. So I just needed to massage the input into valid Haskell code (replacing the colons with equals signs, replacing `/` with `div`) and the answer just fell straight out.

For part two, though... that was a bit more of a mess. At first, I tried to just reverse it by hand... I tried to manually pull out each of the declarations that indirectly depend on `humn` so I could reverse the calculation on each... but it quickly became clear that there were too many to do that approach. But in the ones that I got through, it definitely seemed like the calculations that are dependent on `humn` were never (a) a division that depended on `humn` on the right, or (b) a multiplication that depended on `humn` on both sides... which meant that everything _should_ be linear... if the value of `humn` is `x` then every other value should be `mx + b` for some fixed `m` and `b`.

So I made a new type to represent this linear relationship, to store the `m` and `b` for each value, and then to make the two parts of `root` equal we can solve for `x`. Where this fell down is that I got a bit laser-focused on making this `Linear` type implement `Num`, etc, so that I could use `+`/`-`/`*`/`/`, which all the expressions were already using. Looking back, it probably would have been much faster to just implement entirely new operators, and search-replace the code to use those new operators. Especially since my memory was a bit vague as to what was involved in implementing the relevant classes, and I had to double-check a lot of things in Hoogle (which is not ideal in a race situation). Ultimately it worked, but it took a fair bit longer than it really needed.

[4/142]
