# 22 &ndash; Prepare yourself... for CUBE!
The first part of this wasn't too bad. Just walking around in the direction specified, and then detecting and handling it when walking off the edge of the world. Some of the handling for determining where to re-enter the world after leaving it was a little complicated, but ultimately not too bad. I got slowed down a little because at first I missed what the behaviour was supposed to be when running into a wall, but figured that out pretty quickly.

The second part, though... picturing how the net of this cube folded up, and what edges lined up with what other edges (and in what direction), I just couldn't keep straight in my mind. I ended up noting down a quick comment in the code:
```
  fe
 g@@c
 d@b
g@@c
f@a
 e
```
Here, the `@` characters represent the six faces of the net, and the letters `a`-`g` are marking the edges that match up. After the fact, I drew a [picture version of the same information](22.png) but during the race I just had this text version. And ultimately I just hard-coded this layout... whenever you walk off the edge of the map, I have a big messy if/else chain to determine exactly which edge you've walked off, and then I do some hand-written coordinate maths for each case that moves you to the appropriate place on the corresponding edge.

And I was _sure_ that one of those edge calculations would be wrong... there's so many opportunities for errors, so many magic numbers to have typos, so many fencepost errors (should this constant be `49` or `50`?), even just the possibility of getting the direction backwards (if I leave near the top of this edge, should I re-enter at the top of this other edge, or the bottom?)... and that would just lead to a nightmare of having to hand-debug all these edges... especially since my hard-coded solution would not work with the sample input (since it has a different layout, and a different face size).

So I was thoroughly baffled when I ran it, and it gave me the correct answer, on the first try. I was even more surprised when that correct answer got me rank 1 for the second star. And I was left scared and concerned when no-one else got rank 2 for almost 15 minutes afterward. But I'll take it, and I may be bragging about this one for some time.

[28/1]
