# 23 &ndash; It's about time
Well, it was inevitable. It's not an Advent of Code event without some sort of cellular automaton. Which this... almost is... I guess it would be possible to define this as a cellular automaton with a large range of influence (I think each cell is determined by a 9x9 square centred around that square on the previous level)... and while it's not super useful to think about it directly in that way, some of the higher-level ideas still work (ie you have a grid at a particular generation, and from that you derive the grid at the next generation, all in one step).

The hard part is figuring out how this complex process actually works... and in particular, not missing the whole "the elves' priority order for directions changes each round" part, which I definitely skimmed over several times while reading. The result being a horrifying for-case loop to do all the different options in the right order for each step. It's a mess, but it works.

The rest, after that, is not too bad... we figure out where each elf wants to go, pass that to `collections.Counter` to check for duplicates, and then move all the elves that aren't duplicates.

For part 2, we just do it in the most direct way &ndash; keep a copy of the previous generation, and just directly check if two consecutive generations are equal. In theory this might not actually be 100%, because of the priority-order thing, in theory we actually need to check that it stays static for 4 straight steps (or check that no elf neighbours another elf, which guarantees they'll all stay static)... but this gives me the right answer for my input at least.

[55/56]
