# 24 &ndash; One more maze for old time's sake
This one stumped me at first, trying to figure out a plan of attack... something like Dijkstra isn't that useful here, since the evolving nature of the maze means there'd be far too many nodes in the state graph. So I started thinking about doing a generic breadth-first search, when I realised that this means considering all the places that you can reach on step n (for which all the blizzards will be in a particular arrangement), and figuring out all the places you can reach in step n+1, then moving the blizzards to the next location, and continuing.

So... we just do that, more directly. We maintain a set of all the points that are reachable on a given step, and iterate that, until our set includes the destination. To do that, we have our set of points, build out the set of all those points plus all their neighbours, and then subtract out the set of locations where a blizzard is on that step.

There are some subtle ambiguities with how the blizzard interactions are specified... and how they can move through each other. For instance, if there's a blizzard at (0,0) going right, and you're at (1,0) and want to go left, that's perfectly fine, you and the blizzard can phase through each other, and exchange places. Just so long as you and the blizzard aren't trying to be in the same place on any given timestep.

For part 2, we expand the set of "locations" to include a third value: x position, y position, and stage of the journey. So we start at the start location on stage 0, then the exit location on stage 0 links to the exit location on stage 1, the start location on stage 1 links to the start location on stage 2, and our final destination is the exit on stage 2. To support this, our set of the blizzard locations needs to have each blizzard show up for all three stages, so the set can be subtracted in the same way.

Unfortunately, I wasn't able to do this one at release time, for the leaderboard race. But, out of curiosity, I still timed myself doing it, and tried to treat it like I would in the race. I got the first part done in 10:03, and the second part in 15:47... if I got those times in the real race, I would have gotten 9/20. But unfortunately in reality, I didn't get this. And ultimately, doing it after the real race isn't really the same vibe, as much as I try to maintain it, so who knows how well I would have fared in the actual race. What really matters is that I'm going into day 25 with 48 stars in the bag.
