# 4 &ndash; Reading the puzzle explains the puzzle
Ah, it seems like every year there's at least one puzzle that really trips me up from trying to skim-read quickly for the leaderboard race. Today's problem: I missed that diagonal lines don't count for this bingo variant.

It turns out that for my particular input, this didn't affect the Part 1 of the puzzle &ndash; the first completed line was still a cardinal line, so including the diagonals didn't cause any problems. So, naturally, I assumed my bingo-game code was all working correctly. But this mistake _did_ affect Part 2, as what was supposed to be the final card to get a winning line, in my version had already won earlier on a diagonal, so I got the wrong card as my last-winner.

I immediately knew _something_ was up, as in my version of the code there were _three_ cards that all got their bingo at the same time, tied for last. And the puzzle description did not say what to do in the case of a tie... so I presumed that the data inputs were supposed to be set up to ensure a unique first- and last-winning board. But I was so laser-focused on trying to find the bug in the _new_ code for Part 2 that I spent several minutes staring at it before I thought to go back and reread Part 1 of the puzzle to see if I'd missed anything.

This wouldn't have been a problem if I'd tested with the sample test-data in the puzzle description, but speedrun mode has no time to waste with test data, it only has time to waste staring in confusion at code that doesn't work.

The actual solution is pretty simple: for each board, we find the ~~12~~ 10 separate lines that can be made, and pull each one out as a `Set` of 5 numbers. Then, we iterate over the calls, building `Set`s of all the calls that have been made so far, and as soon as any of the line `Set`s are a subset of the calls `Set`, we have a winner. We do this for each board, and sort by how long it took (in theory I could just get the minimum and maximum, rather than doing a full sort, but I was lazy). Pull out the first and last, and calculate their scores.

[37/303]
