# 13 &ndash; A fold of folds
A nice easy puzzle again after yesterday's puzzle (which I missed for other commitments and haven't gone back to catch up on just yet)...

A slight hiccup during the race that I didn't notice that part 1 only wanted you to do the first fold, not all of the folds. Since the worked example went through both folds in the sample data, I missed the little bit down the bottom that said to only do the first fold.

But, as an upside, the time I spent debugging this was mostly spent in building a method to visualise the grid, so I could check it was folding correctly... which I figured wasn't going to be a waste, because I guessed that part 2 would involve seeing what the final folded pattern looked like. Which did end up being borne out.

After the race, reimplenting in Haskell, I had a different problem... that is, I'm writing all this code to do folds of this grid, implemented in functions that are, naturally, named with assorted variations of the word `fold`. But then... I have this function to take an entire grid and do a single fold to it. And now I want to make a function that takes a grid and does a _sequence_ of folds to it. The functional-programming pattern for taking an object and a list of operations, and doing them in sequence, is called... a `fold` (or `reduce`, depending on who you ask, but Haskell calls them `fold`s).

So, I ended up with this one line in the code that reads
```hs
doFolds folds grid = foldl foldGrid grid folds
```
and... it made perfect sense when I _wrote_ it...

[58/9] - first single-digit finish of the year!
