# 20 &ndash; Your cells. They're so... automated.
Ah, every year, there's always a cellular automaton puzzle. Sometimes, more than one.

This one isn't really anything different than what we'd had before, but it does have one very subtle trap: the puzzle _does not_ say that the cellular grid expands every step, and the space it expands into is set to "off". What it _does_ say is that the _initial_ state is surrounded by an infinite grid of "off" cells. You're just expected to read that second thing and then implement it as the first thing. And, with the example they work through in the puzzle, this assumption works fine, so naturally you will go on to make that assumption in your code, which then works against the example testcase. However, when you plug in the real input file, suddenly you're getting the wrong answer.

And why? Because the rule in the example, has a `.` as its first character, while the rule in the provided input file starts with a `#` (and ends with a `.`). This means that while the example grid is gradually growing into an infinite grid of "off" cells, as you might assume... instead the _real_ input is gradually growing into an infinite grid of cells that _are alternating_ between "off" and "on" every step.

This is why part 1 makes you take two steps and then count how many cells there are &ndash; on the odd steps, there are an infinite number of active cells on the grid, as it includes every cell outside the main area.

But with that hiccup sorted, the rest of this is just another cellular automaton. I really should just make a cellular automaton runner util, I'm sure this is going to come up again in future years. Or past years, when I get around to going back to those.

[22/57]
