# 21 &ndash; They continue to get away with it...
Part 1 is pretty simple, just running the game as described. But I had no idea what was coming for Part 2.

The way the first part emphasised the determanistic dice, I was pretty sure the second part was going to change up the dice for something more random... but it couldn't be _actual_ random, because there needs to be a "correct" answer for the puzzle. I thought maybe it was going to be doing some actual probability calculations, like figuring out each player's probability of winning, but that seemed like a bit too deep into the mathematics than AoC usually expects you to be able to do.

The whole universe-splitting thing was definitely a twist I didn't see coming. As an idea, it's very close to the thought of figuring out each player's probability of winning, except that the weighting isn't right &ndash; universes where the game takes longer are counted the same as for shorter games, If we were to change the problem so that each universe has a weight, and the universe's weight gets divied amongst the sub-universes when it splits (so longer games, which have split more times, have lower weight), then we'd be calculating the actual P(win) for each player.

Anyways, as we've [seen](06.md) [before](14.md), the solution is to not track every individual universe, but to count how many universes are in each state, and just manipulate the counts. So, we have a collection of game-states and a count of how many universes are in that state. Then, each iteration, we pick one of the states, and calculate what all of the subsequent states are after the universe splits, and if that results in any game states we've already seen, then those get merged together, adding up the counts.

One last trick is that, on each iteration we specifically pick the game state with the lowest total score &ndash; since the score is increasing, there's a better chance that this will result in the sub-universes merging with other active universes, to reduce how much work we have to do.

[44/24]
