# 24 &mdash; The one where you have to reverse-engineer the code
So, we're given an instruction set, told how to implement it, and then given a big program written in that instruction set. Cool, nothing we haven't seen before, just have to build the VM, plug in the program, and see what happens, right?

Hmm, except it wants us to find the "largest" value which the machine accepts. And the input space has 9<sup>14</sup> possible values. And, spoiler warning, _very few_ of those values are accepted by the machine and the highest one starts with a `5`, so just brute-forcing it is not really feasible.

So, what else? Well, only one thing for it: tear into this program they've given us, and figure out what it actually does!

The workings is that the variable `w` holds the digit it's currently processing, the variables `x` and `y` are scratch space for calculations, and `z` is used as a _stack_, storing a bunch of small numbers at once by treating it as a big base-26 number. Why 26? Well, to make things a little more complicated, each input value (ranging from 1 to 9) is added to another random number (which gets as high as 16) before being pushed onto the stack, so each individual value on the list could be as large as 25. So base-26 keeps all the values separate and not interfering with each other.

So, our stack operations are: to push a value onto the stack, `z = z * 26 + newvalue`. To peek the value at the top of the stack, `val = z % 26`. To pop a value from the stack, `val = z % 26; z = z // 26`. And since, at the end, we need `z` to be zero, that means we need to end with our stack empty.

OK, with that under our belts, let's look at what the code actually does. The program code they've provided is modular, it comes in 14 very similar chunks. Each one reads one digit, does some basic manipulations of it, and then stashes it in the stack.

There are two forms to this module, the first looks something like this:
```
inp w
mul x 0
add x z
mod x 26
div z 1
add x 14  <----
eql x w
eql x 0
mul y 0
add y 25
mul y x
add y 1
mul z y
mul y 0
add y w
add y 16  <----
mul y x
add z y
```
The `14` and the `16` in the lines marked with arrows, are random values that change with each module, the rest is consistent.

With some effort, this can be decompiled to something resembling:
```py
w = input()
if w != z.peek() + 14:
    z.push(w + 16)
```
However, remember that `w` is between `1` and `9`, so it can never be equal to `z.peek() + 14` which is... at least `14`. This is always the case: the value being added in this version of the module is always bigger than `10`, so this condition will never be satisfied. It is only here for obfuscation (and to make it look similar to the other version of the module).

So a simpler decompilation of the module could be written as:
```py
w = input()
z.push(w + 16)
```
Very simple! Just reads a digit and pushes it onto the stack, with an extra value added to obfuscate things a little.

Now, let's look at the other version of the module:
```
inp w
mul x 0
add x z
mod x 26
div z 26
add x -12  <----
eql x w
eql x 0
mul y 0
add y 25
mul y x
add y 1
mul z y
mul y 0
add y w
add y 6  <----
mul y x
add z y
```
At a first glance, you could be forgiven for not noticing that this is different to the previous module, but there are a couple of small differences. Firstly, a `div z 1` line in the first module (which does nothing) has been replaced with a `div z 26` line in this module. The effect of this is to change `z.peek()` to `z.pop()` in our decompilation. The other is that the number being added to `x` just before the `eql` lines is much smaller (in this example it is negative), which means that the condition is actually possible to achieve.

This module decompiles to:
```py
w = input()
if w != z.pop() - 12:
  z.push(w + 6)
```
Noting that this equality _can_ be met... if these two modules are paired, remember that the value being popped from the stack is our first input plus `16`... This means that if our second input is equal to our first input plus `4`, then we'll have equality, and the second value _won't_ be pushed to the stack. In addition, the first value has been popped from the stack, so now the stack is empty.

Our full program's 14 modules are made of exactly 7 of the first kind, and 7 of the second kind... so that's 7 times that we unconditionally push something onto the stack, then 7 times we unconditionally pop something from the stack, and 7 times we _conditionally_ push to the stack. Since at the end, the stack needs to be empty, that means none of those conditional pushes can be allowed to happen.

To prevent all those conditional pushes from happening, each one puts a simple restriction on our input digits: like in our example above, we decided the second digit had to be equal to the first digit plus `4`. This means that for part 1, where we need to maximise the number, the first two digits must be `59`... while in the second part, where we need to minimise the number, the first two digits must be `15`. There will be 7 such restrictions, each on a different pair of digits, depending on where each one gets pushed and popped from the stack. For example, if the code had two push modules, then a pop module, then a push module, then two pop modules, then we'd have a restriction about digits 1 and 6, a restriction about digits 2 and 3, and a restriction about digits 4 and 5... and all of these restrictions are a simple "A = B + some constant" relationship.

For my particular input, the decompilation looks like:
```py
z.push(A + 16)

z.push(B + 3)

z.push(C + 2)

z.push(D + 7)

if E != z.pop() - 10:
    z.push(E + 13)

z.push(F + 6)

if G != z.pop() - 14:
    z.push(G + 10)

z.push(H + 11)

if I != z.pop() - 4:
    z.push(I + 6)

if J != z.pop() - 3:
    z.push(J + 5)

z.push(K + 11)

if L != z.pop() - 3:
    z.push(L + 4)

if M != z.pop() - 9:
    z.push(M + 4)

if N != z.pop() - 12:
    z.push(N + 6)
```
so the conditions this imposes on our 14-digit number are:
```py
D - 3 == E
F - 8 == G
H + 7 == I
C - 1 == J
K + 8 == L
B - 6 == M
A + 4 == N
```
This is maximised by the number `59996912981939` and minimised by the number `17241911811915`.
